Filename: /home/dev/scikit_learn_data/20news_home/20news-bydate-train/sci.space/61244
Truth category: 2 (sci.space)
Assigned cluster: 0 (space orbit like use launch know moon think time shuttl)

Raw data:
============ START RAW ==========================
From: mcelwre@cnsvax.uwec.edu
Subject: LARSONIAN Astronomy and Physics
Organization: University of Wisconsin Eau Claire
Lines: 552



                      LARSONIAN Astronomy and Physics

               Orthodox physicists, astronomers, and astrophysicists 
          CLAIM to be looking for a "Unified Field Theory" in which all 
          of the forces of the universe can be explained with a single 
          set of laws or equations.  But they have been systematically 
          IGNORING or SUPPRESSING an excellent one for 30 years! 

               The late Physicist Dewey B. Larson's comprehensive 
          GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of the physical universe, which he 
          calls the "Reciprocal System", is built on two fundamental 
          postulates about the physical and mathematical natures of 
          space and time: 
    
               (1) "The physical universe is composed ENTIRELY of ONE 
          component, MOTION, existing in THREE dimensions, in DISCRETE 
          UNITS, and in two RECIPROCAL forms, SPACE and TIME." 
    
               (2) "The physical universe conforms to the relations of 
          ORDINARY COMMUTATIVE mathematics, its magnitudes are 
          ABSOLUTE, and its geometry is EUCLIDEAN." 
    
               From these two postulates, Larson developed a COMPLETE 
          Theoretical Universe, using various combinations of 
          translational, vibrational, rotational, and vibrational-
          rotational MOTIONS, the concepts of IN-ward and OUT-ward 
          SCALAR MOTIONS, and speeds in relation to the Speed of Light 
          (which Larson called "UNIT VELOCITY" and "THE NATURAL 
          DATUM"). 
      
               At each step in the development, Larson was able to 
          MATCH objects in his Theoretical Universe with objects in the 
          REAL physical universe, (photons, sub-atomic particles 
          [INCOMPLETE ATOMS], charges, atoms, molecules, globular star 
          clusters, galaxies, binary star systems, solar systems, white 
          dwarf stars, pulsars, quasars, ETC.), even objects NOT YET 
          DISCOVERED THEN (such as EXPLODING GALAXIES, and GAMMA-RAY 
          BURSTS). 
          
               And applying his Theory to his NEW model of the atom, 
          Larson was able to precisely and accurately CALCULATE inter-
          atomic distances in crystals and molecules, compressibility 
          and thermal expansion of solids, and other properties of 
          matter. 

               All of this is described in good detail, with-OUT fancy 
          complex mathematics, in his books. 
    


          BOOKS of Dewey B. Larson
          
               The following is a complete list of the late Physicist 
          Dewey B. Larson's books about his comprehensive GENERAL 
          UNIFIED Theory of the physical universe.  Some of the early 
          books are out of print now, but still available through 
          inter-library loan. 
    
               "The Structure of the Physical Universe" (1959) 
    
               "The Case AGAINST the Nuclear Atom" (1963)
    
               "Beyond Newton" (1964) 
    
               "New Light on Space and Time" (1965) 
    
               "Quasars and Pulsars" (1971) 
    
               "NOTHING BUT MOTION" (1979) 
                    [A $9.50 SUBSTITUTE for the $8.3 BILLION "Super 
                                                            Collider".] 
                    [The last four chapters EXPLAIN chemical bonding.]

               "The Neglected Facts of Science" (1982) 
     
               "THE UNIVERSE OF MOTION" (1984)
                    [FINAL SOLUTIONS to most ALL astrophysical
                                                            mysteries.] 
      
               "BASIC PROPERTIES OF MATTER" (1988)

               All but the last of these books were published by North 
          Pacific Publishers, P.O. Box 13255, Portland, OR  97213, and 
          should be available via inter-library loan if your local 
          university or public library doesn't have each of them. 

               Several of them, INCLUDING the last one, are available 
          from: The International Society of Unified Science (ISUS), 
          1680 E. Atkin Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah  84106.  This is the 
          organization that was started to promote Larson's Theory.  
          They have other related publications, including the quarterly 
          journal "RECIPROCITY". 

          

          Physicist Dewey B. Larson's Background
    
               Physicist Dewey B. Larson was a retired Engineer 
          (Chemical or Electrical).  He was about 91 years old when he 
          died in May 1989.  He had a Bachelor of Science Degree in 
          Engineering Science from Oregon State University.  He 
          developed his comprehensive GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of the 
          physical universe while trying to develop a way to COMPUTE 
          chemical properties based only on the elements used. 
    
               Larson's lack of a fancy "PH.D." degree might be one 
          reason that orthodox physicists are ignoring him, but it is 
          NOT A VALID REASON.  Sometimes it takes a relative outsider 
          to CLEARLY SEE THE FOREST THROUGH THE TREES.  At the same 
          time, it is clear from his books that he also knew ORTHODOX 
          physics and astronomy as well as ANY physicist or astronomer, 
          well enough to point out all their CONTRADICTIONS, AD HOC 
          ASSUMPTIONS, PRINCIPLES OF IMPOTENCE, IN-CONSISTENCIES, ETC.. 
     
               Larson did NOT have the funds, etc. to experimentally 
          test his Theory.  And it was NOT necessary for him to do so.  
          He simply compared the various parts of his Theory with OTHER 
          researchers' experimental and observational data.  And in 
          many cases, HIS explanation FIT BETTER. 
    
               A SELF-CONSISTENT Theory is MUCH MORE than the ORTHODOX 
          physicists and astronomers have!  They CLAIM to be looking 
          for a "unified field theory" that works, but have been 
          IGNORING one for over 30 years now! 
    
               "Modern physics" does NOT explain the physical universe 
          so well.  Some parts of some of Larson's books are FULL of 
          quotations of leading orthodox physicists and astronomers who 
          agree.  And remember that "epicycles", "crystal spheres", 
          "geocentricity", "flat earth theory", etc., ALSO once SEEMED 
          to explain it well, but were later proved CONCEPTUALLY WRONG. 
    
    
               Prof. Frank H. Meyer, Professor Emeritus of UW-Superior, 
          was/is a STRONG PROPONENT of Larson's Theory, and was (or 
          still is) President of Larson's organization, "THE 
          INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY OF UNIFIED SCIENCE", and Editor of 
          their quarterly Journal "RECIPROCITY".  He moved to 
          Minneapolis after retiring. 
    


          "Super Collider" BOONDOGGLE!
          
               I am AGAINST contruction of the "Superconducting Super 
          Collider", in Texas or anywhere else.  It would be a GROSS 
          WASTE of money, and contribute almost NOTHING of "scientific" 
          value. 
    
               Most physicists don't realize it, but, according to the 
          comprehensive GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of the late Physicist 
          Dewey B. Larson, as described in his books, the strange GOOFY 
          particles ("mesons", "hyperons", ALLEGED "quarks", etc.) 
          which they are finding in EXISTING colliders (Fermi Lab, 
          Cern, etc.) are really just ATOMS of ANTI-MATTER, which are 
          CREATED by the high-energy colliding beams, and which quickly 
          disintegrate like cosmic rays because they are incompatible 
          with their environment. 
    
               A larger and more expensive collider will ONLY create a 
          few more elements of anti-matter that the physicists have not 
          seen there before, and the physicists will be EVEN MORE 
          CONFUSED THAN THEY ARE NOW! 
    
               Are a few more types of anti-matter atoms worth the $8.3 
          BILLION cost?!!  Don't we have much more important uses for 
          this WASTED money?! 
    
     
               Another thing to consider is that the primary proposed 
          location in Texas has a serious and growing problem with some 
          kind of "fire ants" eating the insulation off underground 
          cables.  How much POISONING of the ground and ground water 
          with insecticides will be required to keep the ants out of 
          the "Supercollider"?! 
    
          
               Naming the "Super Collider" after Ronald Reagon, as 
          proposed, is TOTALLY ABSURD!  If it is built, it should be 
          named after a leading particle PHYSICIST. 
      


          LARSONIAN Anti-Matter
          
               In Larson's comprehensive GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of the 
          physical universe, anti-matter is NOT a simple case of 
          opposite charges of the same types of particles.  It has more 
          to do with the rates of vibrations and rotations of the 
          photons of which they are made, in relation to the 
          vibrational and rotational equivalents of the speed of light, 
          which Larson calls "Unit Velocity" and the "Natural Datum". 
     
               In Larson's Theory, a positron is actually a particle of 
          MATTER, NOT anti-matter.  When a positron and electron meet, 
          the rotational vibrations (charges) and rotations of their 
          respective photons (of which they are made) neutralize each 
          other. 
      
               In Larson's Theory, the ANTI-MATTER half of the physical 
          universe has THREE dimensions of TIME, and ONLY ONE dimension 
          of space, and exists in a RECIPROCAL RELATIONSHIP to our 
          MATERIAL half. 
       


          LARSONIAN Relativity
          
               The perihelion point in the orbit of the planet Mercury 
          has been observed and precisely measured to ADVANCE at the 
          rate of 574 seconds of arc per century.  531 seconds of this 
          advance are attributed via calculations to gravitational 
          perturbations from the other planets (Venus, Earth, Jupiter, 
          etc.).  The remaining 43 seconds of arc are being used to 
          help "prove" Einstein's "General Theory of Relativity". 
    
               But the late Physicist Dewey B. Larson achieved results 
          CLOSER to the 43 seconds than "General Relativity" can, by 
          INSTEAD using "SPECIAL Relativity".  In one or more of his 
          books, he applied the LORENTZ TRANSFORMATION on the HIGH 
          ORBITAL SPEED of Mercury. 
    
               Larson TOTALLY REJECTED "General Relativity" as another 
          MATHEMATICAL FANTASY.  He also REJECTED most of "Special 
          Relativity", including the parts about "mass increases" near 
          the speed of light, and the use of the Lorentz Transform on 
          doppler shifts, (Those quasars with red-shifts greater than 
          1.000 REALLY ARE MOVING FASTER THAN THE SPEED OF LIGHT, 
          although most of that motion is away from us IN TIME.). 
     
               In Larson's comprehensive GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of the 
          physical universe, there are THREE dimensions of time instead 
          of only one.  But two of those dimensions can NOT be measured 
          from our material half of the physical universe.  The one 
          dimension that we CAN measure is the CLOCK time.  At low 
          relative speeds, the values of the other two dimensions are 
          NEGLIGIBLE; but at high speeds, they become significant, and 
          the Lorentz Transformation must be used as a FUDGE FACTOR. 
          [Larson often used the term "COORDINATE TIME" when writing 
          about this.] 
    
     
               In regard to "mass increases", it has been PROVEN in 
          atomic accelerators that acceleration drops toward zero near 
          the speed of light.  But the formula for acceleration is 
          ACCELERATION = FORCE / MASS, (a = F/m).  Orthodox physicists 
          are IGNORING the THIRD FACTOR: FORCE.  In Larson's Theory, 
          mass STAYS CONSTANT and FORCE drops toward zero.  FORCE is 
          actually a MOTION, or COMBINATIONS of MOTIONS, or RELATIONS 
          BETWEEN MOTIONS, including INward and OUTward SCALAR MOTIONS.  
          The expansion of the universe, for example, is an OUTward 
          SCALAR motion inherent in the universe and NOT a result of 
          the so-called "Big Bang" (which is yet another MATHEMATICAL 
          FANTASY). 
    
                                    
          
          THE UNIVERSE OF MOTION

               I wish to recommend to EVERYONE the book "THE UNIVERSE 
          OF MOTION", by Dewey B. Larson, 1984, North Pacific 
          Publishers, (P.O. Box 13255, Portland, Oregon  97213), 456 
          pages, indexed, hardcover. 
    
               It contains the Astrophysical portions of a GENERAL 
          UNIFIED Theory of the physical universe developed by that 
          author, an UNrecognized GENIUS, more than thirty years ago. 
    
               It contains FINAL SOLUTIONS to most ALL Astrophysical 
          mysteries, including the FORMATION of galaxies, binary and 
          multiple star systems, and solar systems, the TRUE ORIGIN of 
          the "3-degree" background radiation, cosmic rays, and gamma-
          ray bursts, and the TRUE NATURE of quasars, pulsars, white 
          dwarfs, exploding galaxies, etc.. 
    
               It contains what astronomers and astrophysicists are ALL 
          looking for, if they are ready to seriously consider it with 
          OPEN MINDS! 
    
               The following is an example of his Theory's success: 
          In his first book in 1959, "THE STRUCTURE OF THE PHYSICAL 
          UNIVERSE", Larson predicted the existence of EXPLODING 
          GALAXIES, several years BEFORE astronomers started finding 
          them.  They are a NECESSARY CONSEQUENCE of Larson's 
          comprehensive Theory.  And when QUASARS were discovered, he 
          had an immediate related explanation for them also. 
    

 
          GAMMA-RAY BURSTS

               Astro-physicists and astronomers are still scratching 
          their heads about the mysterious GAMMA-RAY BURSTS.  They were 
          originally thought to originate from "neutron stars" in the 
          disc of our galaxy.  But the new Gamma Ray Telescope now in 
          Earth orbit has been detecting them in all directions 
          uniformly, and their source locations in space do NOT 
          correspond to any known objects, (except for a few cases of 
          directional coincidence). 
    
               Gamma-ray bursts are a NECESSARY CONSEQUENCE of the 
          GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of the physical universe developed by 
          the late Physicist Dewey B. Larson.  According to page 386 of 
          his book "THE UNIVERSE OF MOTION", published in 1984, the 
          gamma-ray bursts are coming from SUPERNOVA EXPLOSIONS in the 
          ANTI-MATTER HALF of the physical universe, which Larson calls 
          the "Cosmic Sector".  Because of the relationship between the 
          anti-matter and material halves of the physical universe, and 
          the way they are connected together, the gamma-ray bursts can 
          pop into our material half anywhere in space, seemingly at 
          random.  (This is WHY the source locations of the bursts do 
          not correspond with known objects, and come from all 
          directions uniformly.) 
    
               I wonder how close to us in space a source location 
          would have to be for a gamma-ray burst to kill all or most 
          life on Earth!  There would be NO WAY to predict one, NOR to 
          stop it! 
    
               Perhaps some of the MASS EXTINCTIONS of the past, which 
          are now being blamed on impacts of comets and asteroids, were 
          actually caused by nearby GAMMA-RAY BURSTS! 
    


          LARSONIAN Binary Star Formation
          
               About half of all the stars in the galaxy in the 
          vicinity of the sun are binary or double.  But orthodox 
          astronomers and astrophysicists still have no satisfactory 
          theory about how they form or why there are so many of them. 
    
               But binary star systems are actually a LIKELY 
          CONSEQUENCE of the comprehensive GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of 
          the physical universe developed by the late Physicist Dewey 
          B. Larson. 
    
               I will try to summarize Larsons explanation, which is 
          detailed in Chapter 7 of his book "THE UNIVERSE OF MOTION" 
          and in some of his other books. 
    
               First of all, according to Larson, stars do NOT generate 
          energy by "fusion".  A small fraction comes from slow 
          gravitational collapse.  The rest results from the COMPLETE 
          ANNIHILATION of HEAVY elements (heavier than IRON).  Each 
          element has a DESTRUCTIVE TEMPERATURE LIMIT.  The heavier the 
          element is, the lower is this limit.  A star's internal 
          temperature increases as it grows in mass via accretion and 
          absorption of the decay products of cosmic rays, gradually 
          reaching the destructive temperature limit of lighter and 
          lighter elements. 
    
               When the internal temperature of the star reaches the 
          destructive temperature limit of IRON, there is a Type I 
          SUPERNOVA EXPLOSION!  This is because there is SO MUCH iron 
          present; and that is related to the structure of iron atoms 
          and the atom building process, which Larson explains in some 
          of his books [better than I can]. 
    
               When the star explodes, the lighter material on the 
          outer portion of the star is blown outward in space at less 
          than the speed of light.  The heavier material in the center 
          portion of the star was already bouncing around at close to 
          the speed of light, because of the high temperature.  The 
          explosion pushes that material OVER the speed of light, and 
          it expands OUTWARD IN TIME, which is equivalent to INWARD IN 
          SPACE, and it often actually DISAPPEARS for a while. 
    
               Over long periods of time, both masses start to fall 
          back gravitationally.  The material that had been blown 
          outward in space now starts to form a RED GIANT star.  The 
          material that had been blown OUTWARD IN TIME starts to form a 
          WHITE DWARF star.  BOTH stars then start moving back toward 
          the "MAIN SEQUENCE" from opposite directions on the H-R 
          Diagram. 
    
               The chances of the two masses falling back into the 
          exact same location in space, making a single lone star 
          again, are near zero.  They will instead form a BINARY 
          system, orbiting each other. 
     
               According to Larson, a white dwarf star has an INVERSE 
          DENSITY GRADIENT (is densest at its SURFACE), because the 
          material at its center is most widely dispersed (blown 
          outward) in time.   This ELIMINATES the need to resort to 
          MATHEMATICAL FANTASIES about "degenerate matter", "neutron 
          stars", "black holes", etc.. 
    


          LARSONIAN Solar System Formation

               If the mass of the heavy material at the center of the 
          exploding star is relatively SMALL, then, instead of a single 
          white dwarf star, there will be SEVERAL "mini" white dwarf 
          stars (revolving around the red giant star, but probably 
          still too far away in three-dimensional TIME to be affected 
          by its heat, etc.).  These will become PLANETS! 
      
               In Chapter 7 of THE UNIVERSE OF MOTION, Larson used all 
          this information, and other principles of his comprehensive 
          GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of the physical universe, to derive 
          his own version of Bode's Law. 
          


          "Black Hole" FANTASY!

               I heard that physicist Stephen W. Hawking recently 
          completed a theoretical mathematical analysis of TWO "black 
          holes" merging together into a SINGLE "black hole", and 
          concluded that the new "black hole" would have MORE MASS than 
          the sum of the two original "black holes". 
    
               Such a result should be recognized by EVERYone as a RED 
          FLAG, causing widespread DOUBT about the whole IDEA of "black 
          holes", etc.! 
    
               After reading Physicist Dewey B. Larson's books about 
          his comprehensive GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of the physical 
          universe, especially his book "THE UNIVERSE OF MOTION", it is 
          clear to me that "black holes" are NOTHING more than 
          MATHEMATICAL FANTASIES!  The strange object at Cygnus X-1 is 
          just an unusually massive WHITE DWARF STAR, NOT the "black 
          hole" that orthodox astronomers and physicists so badly want 
          to "prove" their theory. 
    
    
               By the way, I do NOT understand why so much publicity is 
          being given to physicist Stephen Hawking.  The physicists and 
          astronomers seem to be acting as if Hawking's severe physical 
          problem somehow makes him "wiser".  It does NOT! 
    
               I wish the same attention had been given to Physicist 
          Dewey B. Larson while he was still alive.  Widespread 
          publicity and attention should NOW be given to Larson's 
          Theory, books, and organization (The International Society of 
          Unified Science). 
          
          
          
          ELECTRO-MAGNETIC PROPULSION

               I heard of that concept many years ago, in connection 
          with UFO's and unorthodox inventors, but I never was able to 
          find out how or why they work, or how they are constructed. 
    
               I found a possible clue about why they might work on 
          pages 112-113 of the book "BASIC PROPERTIES OF MATTER", by 
          the late Physicist Dewey B. Larson, which describes part of 
          Larson's comprehensive GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of the physical 
          universe.  I quote one paragraph: 
    
               "As indicated in the preceding chapter, the development 
          of the theory of the universe of motion arrives at a totally 
          different concept of the nature of electrical resistance.  
          The electrons, we find, are derived from the environment.  It 
          was brought out in Volume I [Larson's book "NOTHING BUT 
          MOTION"] that there are physical processes in operation which 
          produce electrons in substantial quantities, and that, 
          although the motions that constitute these electrons are, in 
          many cases, absorbed by atomic structures, the opportunities 
          for utilizing this type of motion in such structures are 
          limited.  It follows that there is always a large excess of 
          free electrons in the material sector [material half] of the 
          universe, most of which are uncharged.  In this uncharged 
          state the electrons cannot move with respect to extension 
          space, because they are inherently rotating units of space, 
          and the relation of space to space is not motion.  In open 
          space, therefore, each uncharged electron remains permanently 
          in the same location with respect to the natural reference 
          system, in the manner of a photon.  In the context of the 
          stationary spatial reference system the uncharged electron, 
          like the photon, is carried outward at the speed of light by 
          the progression of the natural reference system.  All 
          material aggregates are thus exposed to a flux of electrons 
          similar to the continual bombardment by photons of radiation.  
          Meanwhile there are other processes, to be discussed later, 
          whereby electrons are returned to the environment.  The 
          electron population of a material aggregate such as the earth 
          therefore stabilizes at an equilibrium level." 
          
               Note that in Larson's Theory, UNcharged electrons are 
          also massLESS, and are basically photons of light of a 
          particular frequency (above the "unit" frequency) spinning 
          around one axis at a particular rate (below the "unit" rate).  
          ("Unit velocity" is the speed of light, and there are 
          vibrational and rotational equivalents to the speed of light, 
          according to Larson's Theory.)  [I might have the "above" and 
          "below" labels mixed up.] 
    
               Larson is saying that outer space is filled with mass-
          LESS UN-charged electrons flying around at the speed of 
          light! 
    
               If this is true, then the ELECTRO-MAGNETIC PROPULSION 
          fields of spacecraft might be able to interact with these 
          electrons, or other particles in space, perhaps GIVING them a 
          charge (and mass) and shooting them toward the rear to 
          achieve propulsion. (In Larson's Theory, an electrical charge 
          is a one-dimensional rotational vibration of a particular 
          frequency (above the "unit" frequency) superimposed on the 
          rotation of the particle.) 
      
               The paragraph quoted above might also give a clue to 
          confused meteorologists about how and why lightning is 
          generated in clouds. 



          SUPPRESSION of LARSONIAN Physics

               The comprehensive GENERAL UNIFIED Theory of the physical 
          universe developed by the late Physicist Dewey B. Larson has 
          been available for more than 30 YEARS, published in 1959 in 
          his first book "THE STRUCTURE OF THE PHYSICAL UNIVERSE". 
    
               It is TOTALLY UN-SCIENTIFIC for Hawking, Wheeler, Sagan, 
          and the other SACRED PRIESTS of the RELIGION they call 
          "science" (or "physics", or "astronomy", etc.), as well as 
          the "scientific" literature and the "education" systems, to 
          TOTALLY IGNORE Larson's Theory has they have. 
    
               Larson's Theory has excellent explanations for many 
          things now puzzling orthodox physicists and astronomers, such 
          as gamma-ray bursts and the nature of quasars. 
    
               Larson's Theory deserves to be HONESTLY and OPENLY 
          discussed in the physics, chemistry, and astronomy journals, 
          in the U.S. and elsewhere.  And at least the basic principles 
          of Larson's Theory should be included in all related courses 
          at UW-EC, UW-Madison, Cambridge, Cornell University, and 
          elsewhere, so that students are not kept in the dark about a 
          worthy alternative to the DOGMA they are being fed. 
    
          

               For more information, answers to your questions, etc., 
          please consult my CITED SOURCES (especially Larson's BOOKS). 



               UN-altered REPRODUCTION and DISSEMINATION of this 
          IMPORTANT partial summary is ENCOURAGED. 


                                       Robert E. McElwaine
                                       B.S., Physics and Astronomy, UW-EC
          


========== END RAW ============================

Preprocessed:
============ START PREPROCESSED =================
 larsonian astronomi physic      larsonian
astronomi physic  orthodox physicist astronom
astrophysicist claim look unifi field theori forc
univers explain singl set law equat systemat ignor
suppress excel one year  late physicist dewey
larson comprehens general unifi theori physic
univers call reciproc system built two fundament
postul physic mathemat natur space time  physic
univers compos entir one compon motion exist three
dimens discret unit two reciproc form space time
physic univers conform relat ordinari commut
mathemat magnitud absolut geometri euclidean  two
postul larson develop complet theoret univers use
various combin translat vibrat rotat vibrat rotat
motion concept ward ward scalar motion speed relat
speed light larson call unit veloc natur datum
step develop larson abl match object theoret
univers object real physic univers photon sub atom
particl incomplet atom charg atom molecul globular
star cluster galaxi binari star system solar
system white dwarf star pulsar quasar etc even
object yet discov explod galaxi gamma ray burst
appli theori new model atom larson abl precis
accur calcul inter atom distanc crystal molecul
compress thermal expans solid properti matter
describ good detail fanci complex mathemat book
book dewey larson  follow complet list late
physicist dewey larson book comprehens general
unifi theori physic univers earli book print still
avail inter librari loan  structur physic univers
case nuclear atom  beyond newton  new light space
time  quasar pulsar  noth motion substitut billion
super collid last four chapter explain chemic bond
neglect fact scienc  univers motion final solut
astrophys mysteri  basic properti matter  last
book publish north pacif publish box portland
avail via inter librari loan local univers public
librari doesn't  sever includ last one avail
intern societi unifi scienc isus atkin ave salt
lake citi utah organ start promot larson theori
relat public includ quarter journal reciproc
physicist dewey larson background  physicist dewey
larson retir engin chemic electr year old die
bachelor scienc degre engin scienc oregon state
univers develop comprehens general unifi theori
physic univers tri develop way comput chemic
properti base element use  larson lack fanci degre
might one reason orthodox physicist ignor valid
reason sometim take relat outsid clear see forest
tree time clear book also knew orthodox physic
astronomi well physicist astronom well enough
point contradict hoc assumpt principl impot
consist etc  larson fund etc experiment test
theori necessari simpli compar various part theori
research experiment observ data mani case explan
fit better  self consist theori much orthodox
physicist astronom claim look unifi field theori
work ignor one year  modern physic explain physic
univers well part larson book full quotat lead
orthodox physicist astronom agre rememb epicycl
crystal sphere geocentr flat earth theori etc also
seem explain well later prove conceptu wrong
prof frank meyer professor emeritus superior
strong propon larson theori still presid larson
organ intern societi unifi scienc editor quarter
journal reciproc move minneapoli retir    super
collid boondoggl  contruct superconduct super
collid texa anywher els gross wast money contribut
almost noth scientif valu  physicist don't realiz
accord comprehens general unifi theori late
physicist dewey larson describ book strang goofi
particl meson hyperon alleg quark etc find exist
collid fermi lab cern etc realli atom anti matter
creat high energi collid beam quick disintegr like
cosmic ray incompat environ  larger expens collid
creat element anti matter physicist seen physicist
even confus  type anti matter atom worth billion
cost don't much import use wast money   anoth
thing consid primari propos locat texa serious
grow problem kind fire ant eat insul underground
cabl much poison ground ground water insecticid
requir keep ant supercollid   name super collid
ronald reagon propos total absurd built name lead
particl physicist    larsonian anti matter  larson
comprehens general unifi theori physic univers
anti matter simpl case opposit charg type particl
rate vibrat rotat photon made relat vibrat rotat
equival speed light larson call unit veloc natur
datum  larson theori positron actual particl
matter anti matter positron electron meet rotat
vibrat charg rotat respect photon made neutral
larson theori anti matter half physic univers
three dimens time one dimens space exist reciproc
relationship materi half    larsonian relat
perihelion point orbit planet mercuri observ
precis measur advanc rate second arc per centuri
second advanc attribut via calcul gravit perturb
planet venus earth jupit etc remain second arc use
help prove einstein general theori relat  late
physicist dewey larson achiev result closer second
general relat instead use special relat one book
appli lorentz transform high orbit speed mercuri
larson total reject general relat anoth mathemat
fantasi also reject special relat includ part mass
increas near speed light use lorentz transform
doppler shift quasar red shift greater realli move
faster speed light although motion away time
larson comprehens general unifi theori physic
univers three dimens time instead one two dimens
measur materi half physic univers one dimens
measur clock time low relat speed valu two dimens
neglig high speed becom signific lorentz transform
must use fudg factor larson often use term coordin
time write    regard mass increas proven atom
acceler acceler drop toward zero near speed light
formula acceler acceler forc mass orthodox
physicist ignor third factor forc larson theori
mass stay constant forc drop toward zero forc
actual motion combin motion relat motion includ
inward outward scalar motion expans univers exampl
outward scalar motion inher univers result call
big bang yet anoth mathemat fantasi    univers
motion  wish recommend everyon book univers motion
dewey larson north pacif publish box portland
oregon page index hardcov  contain astrophys
portion general unifi theori physic univers
develop author unrecogn genius thirti year ago
contain final solut astrophys mysteri includ
format galaxi binari multipl star system solar
system true origin degre background radiat cosmic
ray gamma ray burst true natur quasar pulsar white
dwarf explod galaxi etc  contain astronom
astrophysicist look readi serious consid open mind
follow exampl theori success first book structur
physic univers larson predict exist explod galaxi
sever year astronom start find necessari consequ
larson comprehens theori quasar discov immedi
relat explan also    gamma ray burst  astro
physicist astronom still scratch head mysteri
gamma ray burst origin thought origin neutron star
disc galaxi new gamma ray telescop earth orbit
detect direct uniform sourc locat space correspond
known object except case direct coincid  gamma ray
burst necessari consequ general unifi theori
physic univers develop late physicist dewey larson
accord page book univers motion publish gamma ray
burst come supernova explos anti matter half
physic univers larson call cosmic sector
relationship anti matter materi halv physic
univers way connect togeth gamma ray burst pop
materi half anywher space seem random sourc locat
burst correspond known object come direct uniform
wonder close space sourc locat gamma ray burst
kill life earth way predict one stop  perhap mass
extinct past blame impact comet asteroid actual
caus nearbi gamma ray burst    larsonian binari
star format  half star galaxi vicin sun binari
doubl orthodox astronom astrophysicist still
satisfactori theori form mani  binari star system
actual like consequ comprehens general unifi
theori physic univers develop late physicist dewey
larson  tri summar larson explan detail chapter
book univers motion book  first accord larson star
generat energi fusion small fraction come slow
gravit collaps rest result complet annihil heavi
element heavier iron element destruct temperatur
limit heavier element lower limit star intern
temperatur increas grow mass via accret absorpt
decay product cosmic ray gradual reach destruct
temperatur limit lighter lighter element  intern
temperatur star reach destruct temperatur limit
iron type supernova explos much iron present relat
structur iron atom atom build process larson
explain book better  star explod lighter materi
outer portion star blown outward space less speed
light heavier materi center portion star alreadi
bounc around close speed light high temperatur
explos push materi speed light expand outward time
equival inward space often actual disappear  long
period time mass start fall back gravit materi
blown outward space start form red giant star
materi blown outward time start form white dwarf
star star start move back toward main sequenc
opposit direct diagram  chanc two mass fall back
exact locat space make singl lone star near zero
instead form binari system orbit  accord larson
white dwarf star invers densiti gradient densest
surfac materi center wide dispers blown outward
time elimin need resort mathemat fantasi degener
matter neutron star black hole etc    larsonian
solar system format  mass heavi materi center
explod star relat small instead singl white dwarf
star sever mini white dwarf star revolv around red
giant star probabl still far away three dimension
time affect heat etc becom planet  chapter univers
motion larson use inform principl comprehens
general unifi theori physic univers deriv version
bode law    black hole fantasi  heard physicist
stephen hawk recent complet theoret mathemat
analysi two black hole merg togeth singl black
hole conclud new black hole mass sum two origin
black hole  result recogn everyon red flag caus
widespread doubt whole idea black hole etc  read
physicist dewey larson book comprehens general
unifi theori physic univers especi book univers
motion clear black hole noth mathemat fantasi
strang object cygnus unusu massiv white dwarf star
black hole orthodox astronom physicist bad want
prove theori   way understand much public given
physicist stephen hawk physicist astronom seem act
hawk sever physic problem somehow make wiser  wish
attent given physicist dewey larson still aliv
widespread public attent given larson theori book
organ intern societi unifi scienc    electro
magnet propuls  heard concept mani year ago
connect ufo unorthodox inventor never abl find
work construct  found possibl clue might work page
book basic properti matter late physicist dewey
larson describ part larson comprehens general
unifi theori physic univers quot one paragraph
indic preced chapter develop theori univers motion
arriv total differ concept natur electr resist
electron find deriv environ brought volum larson
book noth motion physic process oper produc
electron substanti quantiti although motion
constitut electron mani case absorb atom structur
opportun util type motion structur limit follow
alway larg excess free electron materi sector
materi half univers uncharg uncharg state electron
cannot move respect extens space inher rotat unit
space relat space space motion open space therefor
uncharg electron remain perman locat respect natur
refer system manner photon context stationari
spatial refer system uncharg electron like photon
carri outward speed light progress natur refer
system materi aggreg thus expos flux electron
similar continu bombard photon radiat meanwhil
process discuss later wherebi electron return
environ electron popul materi aggreg earth
therefor stabil equilibrium level  note larson
theori uncharg electron also massless basic photon
light particular frequenc unit frequenc spin
around one axi particular rate unit rate unit
veloc speed light vibrat rotat equival speed light
accord larson theori might label mix  larson say
outer space fill mass less charg electron fli
around speed light  true electro magnet propuls
field spacecraft might abl interact electron
particl space perhap give charg mass shoot toward
rear achiev propuls larson theori electr charg one
dimension rotat vibrat particular frequenc unit
frequenc superimpos rotat particl  paragraph quot
might also give clue confus meteorologist lightn
generat cloud    suppress larsonian physic
comprehens general unifi theori physic univers
develop late physicist dewey larson avail year
publish first book structur physic univers  total
scientif hawk wheeler sagan sacr priest religion
call scienc physic astronomi etc well scientif
literatur educ system total ignor larson theori
larson theori excel explan mani thing puzzl
orthodox physicist astronom gamma ray burst natur
quasar  larson theori deserv honest open discuss
physic chemistri astronomi journal elsewher least
basic principl larson theori includ relat cours
madison cambridg cornel univers elsewher student
kept dark worthi altern dogma fed    inform answer
question etc pleas consult cite sourc especi
larson book    alter reproduct dissemin import
partial summari encourag   robert mcelwain physic
astronomi
========== END PREPROCESSED =====================


Feature vector (sorted, non-zero values only):
Term, Index, Value:
larson, 5130, 0.555727524161
physicist, 6614, 0.264939074664
theori, 8848, 0.26046823232
physic, 6613, 0.213708081541
unifi, 9272, 0.192367219902
univers, 9282, 0.19217529626
motion, 5880, 0.169646593768
star, 8324, 0.156287830747
dewey, 2601, 0.15330915924
book, 1218, 0.113923563754
comprehens, 1985, 0.107357479884
electron, 3034, 0.0998943187427
relat, 7247, 0.099477223732
materi, 5543, 0.0955225056111
speed, 8217, 0.0940520710846
atom, 756, 0.0929076098653
general, 3818, 0.0893097258446
burst, 1417, 0.0882036513903
ray, 7118, 0.0846038975652
mass, 5533, 0.0820524413087
light, 5267, 0.0805546511817
outward, 6335, 0.0795884435537
astronom, 728, 0.0791849843235
vibrat, 9498, 0.0789128058939
larsonian, 5131, 0.0789128058939
matter, 5553, 0.0785448431431
orthodox, 6303, 0.0781458317816
gamma, 3762, 0.0778210386346
space, 8164, 0.0738160074261
photon, 6608, 0.0718981143836
collid, 1901, 0.067794782896
rotat, 7490, 0.0670911002045
anti, 542, 0.0657968639212
quasar, 7028, 0.0657039253884
dwarf, 2933, 0.0655365566218
hole, 4343, 0.0626440006511
mathemat, 5545, 0.0598716960161
dimens, 2652, 0.0595881199207
particl, 6441, 0.0592200771558
uncharg, 9223, 0.0584458327976
black, 1133, 0.0568833317406
reciproc, 7171, 0.054753271157
galaxi, 3753, 0.0541961057548
late, 5139, 0.0530734826433
unit, 9278, 0.0525036243525
natur, 5966, 0.0489833584634
develop, 2588, 0.0484596673183
time, 8936, 0.0480909486942
temperatur, 8773, 0.0474519551586
binari, 1096, 0.0470388133775
explod, 3305, 0.0468118261585
half, 4124, 0.0458438278837
fantasi, 3384, 0.0451030627497
element, 3037, 0.0434546884668
white, 9737, 0.0433757530592
astronomi, 729, 0.0417626671007
charg, 1664, 0.0412303321353
hawk, 4209, 0.0397942217769
structur, 8460, 0.0395461572986
locat, 5323, 0.0384304867287
scienc, 7692, 0.0378208763399
frequenc, 3685, 0.0352346581706
lorentz, 5348, 0.0350674996785
blown, 1174, 0.0349775984372
cosmic, 2164, 0.0344954116143
publish, 6974, 0.0333933631179
super, 8552, 0.0330678464932
astrophysicist, 732, 0.0328519626942
accord, 219, 0.0324753312795
ignor, 4496, 0.0322790672394
intern, 4716, 0.0321511238152
scalar, 7658, 0.032061203317
object, 6173, 0.0319449618373
explan, 3302, 0.0317774314794
properti, 6925, 0.0316346367724
iron, 4767, 0.0316346367724
limit, 5278, 0.031601850967
pulsar, 6981, 0.0313926257899
acceler, 207, 0.0310963049279
chapter, 1658, 0.0306038465361
forc, 3594, 0.0299303005864
includ, 4579, 0.0298479842661
explain, 3301, 0.0292201727526
form, 3610, 0.0289708854715
total, 9013, 0.0288493932881
use, 9363, 0.0287364559796
gravit, 4009, 0.0283863294283
lighter, 5269, 0.0278071812314
heavier, 4231, 0.0278071812314
start, 8334, 0.0274574233066
inter, 4703, 0.0268393699711
astrophys, 731, 0.0262331988279
destruct, 2575, 0.0258715587107
year, 9943, 0.0254336291304
veloc, 9456, 0.0253800330668
explos, 3308, 0.0252278360875
earth, 2956, 0.0251809672784
case, 1540, 0.0251327763349
rate, 7108, 0.0250964124423
theoret, 8847, 0.0249385843353
instead, 4682, 0.0248294623494
mysteri, 5942, 0.0246674229904
consequ, 2057, 0.0246674229904
journal, 4898, 0.0245379456484
portion, 6752, 0.0241712059789
electr, 3030, 0.0241712059789
chemic, 1690, 0.0241712059789
singl, 7983, 0.0239816703202
basic, 937, 0.0237968976756
transform, 9053, 0.0237259775793
equival, 3162, 0.0235194066887
positron, 6762, 0.023378333119
zero, 9985, 0.0233222286959
actual, 254, 0.023241790267
red, 7194, 0.0231441286189
principl, 6870, 0.0227793750109
type, 9177, 0.0225870562386
datum, 2392, 0.0225465159697
result, 7332, 0.0224413837552
complet, 1975, 0.022355709717
public, 6973, 0.0222156812822
direct, 2667, 0.0221606057059
aggreg, 333, 0.0219013084628
suppress, 8579, 0.0213741355447
necessari, 5990, 0.0213444042878
sourc, 8153, 0.0213440422427
sever, 7823, 0.0213440422427
abl, 180, 0.0211567257272
propuls, 6936, 0.0210492449267
noth, 6119, 0.0210426610469
orbit, 6280, 0.0209308027856
inward, 4751, 0.0209284171932
electro, 3032, 0.0209284171932
exist, 3283, 0.0207347537804
page, 6382, 0.0206671088304
origin, 6293, 0.020565898228
societi, 8093, 0.0205638380265
portland, 6753, 0.0205423183953
scientif, 7693, 0.0205131103272
mani, 5479, 0.0205044465072
ant, 536, 0.0202017551196
environ, 3139, 0.0201737173362
degre, 2491, 0.0201273300613
second, 7753, 0.020125465318
avail, 811, 0.0200870406464
concept, 2002, 0.0200360178707
supernova, 8565, 0.0198971108884
planet, 6664, 0.0198589659876
respect, 7321, 0.0196473548073
measur, 5601, 0.0195655190049
increas, 4590, 0.0195655190049
high, 4292, 0.0195567994438
postul, 6773, 0.0193699379703
loan, 5319, 0.0193699379703
solar, 8107, 0.0192527948444
prove, 6947, 0.0192527948444
librari, 5250, 0.0192527948444
contain, 2079, 0.0190682066104
oregon, 6285, 0.0187247304634
describ, 2556, 0.0186878126988
molecul, 5823, 0.018538120821
ward, 9636, 0.0183628280067
sector, 7760, 0.0181975575452
neutron, 6022, 0.0181975575452
particular, 6442, 0.0181586132557
organ, 6287, 0.0181586132557
widespread, 9750, 0.0180412250999
fanci, 3383, 0.0180412250999
retir, 7339, 0.0176173290853
near, 5982, 0.017557541665
process, 6890, 0.0175321036516
center, 1606, 0.0175068139656
paragraph, 6418, 0.0174887992186
magnet, 5437, 0.0174887992186
crystal, 2267, 0.0174887992186
dimension, 2653, 0.0173657403959
format, 3612, 0.0173580964642
pacif, 6372, 0.0172477058072
correspond, 2158, 0.0172477058072
open, 6258, 0.0172143097432
mercuri, 5640, 0.0170251771202
inher, 4644, 0.0170251771202
expans, 3289, 0.0170251771202
shift, 7883, 0.0169200220445
quarter, 7027, 0.0169200220445
new, 6023, 0.0168453746375
outer, 6324, 0.016720532889
clear, 1803, 0.0166410584457
elsewher, 3055, 0.0166257228902
clue, 1844, 0.0166257228902
uniform, 9273, 0.0165339232466
field, 3466, 0.0163225911162
arc, 608, 0.0162748145376
relationship, 7248, 0.0160370275255
refer, 7213, 0.0159902198753
experiment, 3297, 0.0159619208118
reject, 7244, 0.0156131315109
anywher, 557, 0.0156131315109
given, 3887, 0.0155671587446
heavi, 4230, 0.0154846016442
true, 9121, 0.0154714820226
radiat, 7058, 0.0154224176153
grow, 4066, 0.0153019232681
stephen, 8380, 0.0152435082328
opposit, 6270, 0.0151862500073
deriv, 2550, 0.0151862500073
way, 9666, 0.0151273383214
discov, 2698, 0.0150750268372
strang, 8426, 0.0149158244701
attent, 766, 0.0149158244701
background, 855, 0.0148143598173
achiev, 232, 0.0146685417323
texa, 8820, 0.0146215253158
north, 6110, 0.014397269877
solut, 8118, 0.0142706169632
follow, 3578, 0.0142554146059
energi, 3102, 0.0140711278077
precis, 6809, 0.0140328299511
combin, 1921, 0.0140328299511
drop, 2878, 0.0139950327345
anoth, 533, 0.0139784799905
confus, 2037, 0.0139208890336
calcul, 1451, 0.0139208890336
factor, 3352, 0.0138845181653
excel, 3261, 0.0138485991208
connect, 2046, 0.0138131208118
billion, 1092, 0.0137780725536
wast, 9654, 0.0135762618838
remain, 7264, 0.0135439548896
wish, 9801, 0.0133876224442
togeth, 8969, 0.0133876224442
fall, 3369, 0.0132393106584
consist, 2061, 0.0131820524329
giant, 3865, 0.0131538429808
predict, 6816, 0.0130982365382
ground, 4061, 0.0129901325118
therefor, 8855, 0.0129116268958
special, 8198, 0.0128859249852
appli, 584, 0.0128101622429
various, 9432, 0.0127607346136
built, 1381, 0.0126643441579
come, 1923, 0.0125770157308
reach, 7128, 0.01257106362
generat, 3819, 0.0125255280978
quot, 7045, 0.0124147311747
law, 5153, 0.0124147311747
work, 9833, 0.0122875029628
propos, 6933, 0.0121450821774
later, 5140, 0.0121253452686
observ, 6179, 0.0120286323768
especi, 3190, 0.0119721202346
valu, 9414, 0.011826607977
box, 1254, 0.0118089232375
lead, 5172, 0.0117392464707
caus, 1569, 0.0117050277767
money, 5835, 0.0116544472582
becom, 983, 0.0115883541886
known, 5054, 0.0115558656906
everyon, 3241, 0.0115237381834
away, 833, 0.0114605346636
final, 3482, 0.0113531476728
engin, 3109, 0.0112788133501
wiser, 9800, 0.0112732579848
superimpos, 8561, 0.0112732579848
supercollid, 8556, 0.0112732579848
halv, 4135, 0.0112732579848
disintegr, 2718, 0.0112732579848
commut, 1954, 0.0112732579848
cern, 1618, 0.0112732579848
small, 8054, 0.0112641730865
claim, 1782, 0.0112641730865
ago, 336, 0.0112641730865
perhap, 6540, 0.0111920634665
creat, 2217, 0.0111778548585
discuss, 2708, 0.0111217085137
heard, 4224, 0.0109859349374
import, 4551, 0.0109595288553
close, 1830, 0.0109595288553
superconduct, 8558, 0.0109506542314
invers, 4743, 0.0109506542314
incomplet, 4584, 0.0109506542314
geocentr, 3836, 0.0109506542314
fudg, 3714, 0.0109506542314
forest, 3601, 0.0109506542314
extinct, 3323, 0.0109506542314
euclidean, 3216, 0.0109506542314
dispers, 2732, 0.0109506542314
disc, 2685, 0.0109506542314
accret, 223, 0.0109506542314
advanc, 285, 0.0109333617455
look, 5341, 0.0108238429394
systemat, 8663, 0.0106870677723
ronald, 7473, 0.0106870677723
lone, 5335, 0.0106870677723
hoc, 4333, 0.0106870677723
flux, 3563, 0.0106870677723
bachelor, 852, 0.0106870677723
exampl, 3258, 0.010487643394
quark, 7026, 0.0104642085966
minneapoli, 5743, 0.0104642085966
madison, 5427, 0.0104642085966
doppler, 2821, 0.0104642085966
dogma, 2798, 0.0104642085966
bombard, 1210, 0.0104642085966
annihil, 520, 0.0104642085966
meyer, 5672, 0.0102711591977
hardcov, 4169, 0.0102711591977
equilibrium, 3159, 0.0102711591977
bode, 1193, 0.0102711591977
absorpt, 197, 0.0102711591977
state, 8342, 0.0102519136185
consid, 2059, 0.010140884603
ufo, 9191, 0.0101008775598
stationari, 8347, 0.0101008775598
revolv, 7367, 0.0101008775598
quotat, 7046, 0.0101008775598
insul, 4688, 0.0101008775598
globular, 3906, 0.0101008775598
discret, 2703, 0.0101008775598
degener, 2489, 0.0101008775598
cluster, 1848, 0.0101008775598
vicin, 9501, 0.00994855544421
underground, 9242, 0.00994855544421
scratch, 7717, 0.00994855544421
propon, 6931, 0.00994855544421
newton, 6037, 0.00994855544421
mini, 5737, 0.00994855544421
wherebi, 9724, 0.00981076332983
satisfactori, 7634, 0.00981076332983
salt, 7594, 0.00981076332983
puzzl, 6999, 0.00981076332983
perihelion, 6543, 0.00981076332983
neutral, 6020, 0.00981076332983
neglig, 5998, 0.00981076332983
neglect, 5997, 0.00981076332983
merg, 5642, 0.00981076332983
gradient, 3979, 0.00981076332983
conceptu, 2003, 0.00981076332983
stabil, 8297, 0.00968496898514
sagan, 7581, 0.00968496898514
ordinari, 6282, 0.00968496898514
inventor, 4742, 0.00968496898514
fermi, 3447, 0.00968496898514
perturb, 6569, 0.00956924940562
lightn, 5270, 0.00956924940562
dissemin, 2741, 0.00956924940562
cornel, 2147, 0.00956924940562
absorb, 195, 0.00956924940562
inform, 4637, 0.00950360973729
sacr, 7567, 0.00946210980944
resort, 7319, 0.00946210980944
prof, 6897, 0.00946210980944
gross, 4058, 0.00946210980944
fusion, 3735, 0.00946210980944
reproduct, 7298, 0.00936236523169
mcelwain, 5576, 0.00936236523169
lake, 5097, 0.00936236523169
incompat, 4582, 0.00936236523169
diagram, 2608, 0.00936236523169
decay, 2433, 0.00936236523169
cabl, 1442, 0.00936236523169
reason, 7156, 0.00932644846033
gradual, 3980, 0.00926906041048
excess, 3263, 0.00918141400333
ave, 814, 0.00918141400333
like, 5272, 0.00913240405312
bang, 894, 0.00909877877262
problem, 6887, 0.00909673399319
thirti, 8877, 0.00902061254994
worthi, 9851, 0.00894645665703
meanwhil, 5600, 0.00894645665703
flag, 3515, 0.00894645665703
expos, 3311, 0.00894645665703
einstein, 3018, 0.00894645665703
compos, 1981, 0.00894645665703
unusu, 9325, 0.00887591959692
substitut, 8504, 0.00887591959692
conform, 2035, 0.00887591959692
collaps, 1896, 0.00887591959692
genius, 3826, 0.00880866454264
fed, 3424, 0.00880866454264
cambridg, 1470, 0.00880866454264
beam, 969, 0.00880866454264
summar, 8535, 0.00874439960929
preced, 6806, 0.00874439960929
bounc, 1249, 0.00874439960929
quantiti, 7021, 0.00868287019795
poison, 6713, 0.00868287019795
nearbi, 5983, 0.00868287019795
massiv, 5536, 0.00868287019795
disappear, 2678, 0.00868287019795
better, 1060, 0.00865002997759
spatial, 8189, 0.00862385290358
resist, 7314, 0.00862385290358
priest, 6860, 0.00862385290358
geometri, 3844, 0.00862385290358
coincid, 1883, 0.00862385290358
chemistri, 1692, 0.00862385290358
realli, 7150, 0.00857993088616
superior, 8562, 0.00856715061843
magnitud, 5441, 0.00856715061843
label, 5086, 0.00856715061843
elimin, 3044, 0.00856715061843
clock, 1827, 0.00851258856009
absurd, 200, 0.00851258856009
utah, 9380, 0.00840927869583
fraction, 3639, 0.00840927869583
densiti, 2531, 0.00840927869583
tri, 9087, 0.00837390825539
sum, 8532, 0.0083128614451
manner, 5486, 0.0083128614451
formula, 3614, 0.0083128614451
flat, 3526, 0.0083128614451
axi, 840, 0.0083128614451
tree, 9080, 0.00826696162329
popul, 6745, 0.00826696162329
asteroid, 716, 0.00826696162329
proven, 6948, 0.00822247433012
professor, 6901, 0.00822247433012
pop, 6743, 0.00822247433012
perman, 6550, 0.00822247433012
consult, 2076, 0.00822247433012
substanti, 8503, 0.00817931521615
partial, 6439, 0.00817931521615
constitut, 2070, 0.00817931521615
point, 6710, 0.0081615491414
sub, 8482, 0.00809667998543
promot, 6914, 0.00809667998543
alleg, 422, 0.00809667998543
spin, 8235, 0.00805706865962
match, 5541, 0.00805706865962
index, 4596, 0.00805706865962
fundament, 3724, 0.00805706865962
assumpt, 711, 0.00805706865962
random, 7093, 0.00801851376276
blame, 1138, 0.00801851376276
alter, 449, 0.00801851376276
venus, 9463, 0.00798096040591
shoot, 7900, 0.00798096040591
progress, 6907, 0.00798096040591
heat, 4226, 0.00798096040591
coordin, 2126, 0.00794435786984
thermal, 8857, 0.00790865919311
sequenc, 7804, 0.00790865919311
nuclear, 6150, 0.00790865919311
literatur, 5307, 0.00790865919311
expand, 3288, 0.00790865919311
deserv, 2560, 0.00790865919311
arriv, 655, 0.00790865919311
thing, 8869, 0.0078991606128
sphere, 8226, 0.00787382080973
recogn, 7173, 0.00787382080973
mix, 5788, 0.00787382080973
encourag, 3089, 0.00783980222958
detect, 2579, 0.00780656575546
cloud, 1835, 0.00780656575546
honest, 4361, 0.00777407623198
push, 6996, 0.00774230082211
conclud, 2008, 0.00774230082211
primari, 6863, 0.00771120880764
affect, 310, 0.00768077141077
equat, 3157, 0.00759312500363
contradict, 2098, 0.00759312500363
water, 9657, 0.00756505183124
summari, 8536, 0.00756505183124
opportun, 6268, 0.00756505183124
jupit, 4932, 0.00756505183124
editor, 2997, 0.00756505183124
eat, 2968, 0.00756505183124
comet, 1926, 0.0075375134186
attribut, 773, 0.0075375134186
impact, 4534, 0.00751048977291
multipl, 5919, 0.00748396200201
compress, 1986, 0.00748396200201
cite, 1774, 0.00748396200201
greater, 4017, 0.00745791223507
compon, 1980, 0.00745791223507
interact, 4704, 0.00743232355023
aliv, 417, 0.00743232355023
valid, 9411, 0.00740717990864
larger, 5125, 0.00740717990864
accur, 225, 0.00740717990864
constant, 2067, 0.007382466094
telescop, 8764, 0.00735816765732
closer, 1831, 0.00735816765732
recommend, 7178, 0.00733427086613
extens, 3320, 0.00733427086613
construct, 2074, 0.00733427086613
volum, 9577, 0.00731076265791
kept, 4989, 0.00731076265791
astro, 724, 0.00731076265791
translat, 9057, 0.00728763059721
educ, 3002, 0.0072648628361
make, 5459, 0.00725212942505
context, 2087, 0.00724244807779
knew, 5045, 0.00722037554294
student, 8468, 0.0071986349385
altern, 450, 0.0071986349385
slow, 8044, 0.00715611060959
bond, 1211, 0.00715611060959
modern, 5811, 0.00713530848162
readi, 7139, 0.00711480142926
meet, 5615, 0.00711480142926
centuri, 1614, 0.00711480142926
brought, 1343, 0.00711480142926
faster, 3399, 0.00709458119824
solid, 8115, 0.00707463987587
distanc, 2744, 0.00707463987587
complex, 1976, 0.00707463987587
wide, 9747, 0.00703556390387
print, 6871, 0.00692429956039
presid, 6839, 0.00692429956039
lower, 5371, 0.00692429956039
immedi, 4527, 0.00692429956039
stay, 8355, 0.00690656040592
outsid, 6332, 0.00687172202254
dark, 2365, 0.00685461267551
analysi, 490, 0.00685461267551
lab, 5085, 0.00682098969612
expens, 3294, 0.00682098969612
util, 9384, 0.00678813094191
doubl, 2828, 0.00674020203492
absolut, 193, 0.00674020203492
self, 7776, 0.00670911002045
lack, 5092, 0.00669381122212
step, 8377, 0.00667867262358
realiz, 7149, 0.00663418533041
contribut, 2103, 0.00659102621644
fund, 3723, 0.00656295304406
don, 2811, 0.00655847089693
worth, 9850, 0.0065491182691
fit, 3510, 0.00652183966829
citi, 1775, 0.00652183966829
robert, 7437, 0.00650839098572
doubt, 2830, 0.00646877965991
act, 249, 0.00645581344788
spacecraft, 8166, 0.00644296249259
period, 6546, 0.00644296249259
success, 8513, 0.00641759828147
strong, 8456, 0.00640508112146
produc, 6895, 0.00640508112146
sometim, 8128, 0.00635606887013
main, 5450, 0.00634407110044
surfac, 8587, 0.0063203701934
indic, 4600, 0.00629705157576
entir, 3129, 0.00628553181002
chanc, 1649, 0.00628553181002
signific, 7951, 0.00622927089961
kill, 5012, 0.00618578723227
frank, 3655, 0.00618578723227
return, 7346, 0.00617511764178
rest, 7324, 0.00617511764178
fli, 3542, 0.00617511764178
simpl, 7965, 0.00616452621748
quick, 7036, 0.00616452621748
local, 5322, 0.0061540118224
religion, 7261, 0.00612291980793
stop, 8413, 0.00611270264208
past, 6456, 0.00611270264208
carri, 1530, 0.00611270264208
head, 4215, 0.00610255717622
continu, 2092, 0.00610255717622
compar, 1960, 0.00608247736801
model, 5807, 0.00606267263432
product, 6896, 0.00605287108525
oper, 6261, 0.00605287108525
earli, 2951, 0.00599541758005
similar, 7961, 0.00598606011728
sun, 8539, 0.00597676283153
low, 5368, 0.0059583457296
test, 8812, 0.00594016029547
term, 8795, 0.00594016029547
level, 5229, 0.0059311526467
author, 796, 0.0059311526467
simpli, 7967, 0.0059222007732
regard, 7224, 0.0059222007732
die, 2628, 0.0059133039885
free, 3668, 0.00588693748962
build, 1378, 0.00583560465521
alreadi, 443, 0.0057941770943
present, 6837, 0.00578603215472
recent, 7168, 0.00574598186642
exact, 3253, 0.00573810324773
mind, 5733, 0.00563208654323
version, 9479, 0.00562480328878
agre, 337, 0.00559603173323
research, 7307, 0.00556085425687
cost, 2169, 0.00549296746872
old, 6216, 0.00546668087273
alway, 457, 0.00546018323055
requir, 7302, 0.00537826851963
seen, 7767, 0.00536606825355
larg, 5124, 0.00535397008295
data, 2385, 0.00535397008295
answer, 535, 0.00533601056068
rememb, 7269, 0.00532416030621
life, 5260, 0.00532416030621
bad, 861, 0.00532416030621
wrong, 9869, 0.00530656508354
list, 5298, 0.00529495278857
wonder, 9821, 0.00524941444269
note, 6118, 0.00521617796856
understand, 9246, 0.00518368844509
set, 7815, 0.00517834380702
kind, 5021, 0.00515716067419
thought, 8887, 0.0050458963307
comput, 1993, 0.0050122174012
els, 3053, 0.00499802033506
write, 9865, 0.00498396133009
fact, 3350, 0.00496082926939
real, 7144, 0.00495624694241
cours, 2190, 0.00494712563171
idea, 4482, 0.00494258646644
big, 1082, 0.00492457099406
far, 3386, 0.00482930928176
possibl, 6765, 0.00473993840298
probabl, 6885, 0.00472816854461
doesn, 2793, 0.00468961364775
long, 5336, 0.00455528434449
base, 923, 0.00452441364237
differ, 2633, 0.00445161587351
read, 7135, 0.00440088354708
question, 7032, 0.00437616973245
pleas, 6688, 0.00425293012062
help, 4249, 0.0042473156555
want, 9634, 0.00393822342985
need, 5993, 0.00388710107376
good, 3948, 0.00371633421255
say, 7653, 0.00367049503475
