Filename: /home/dev/scikit_learn_data/20news_home/20news-bydate-test/sci.space/61435
Truth category: 2 (sci.space)
Assigned cluster: 0 (space orbit like use launch know moon think time shuttl)

Raw data:
============ START RAW ==========================
From: newsdesk@jplpost.jpl.nasa.gov (JPL Public Information)
Subject: JPL Info Summary/"Our Solar System at a Glance"
Organization: Jet Propulsion Laboratory
Lines: 1160
NNTP-Posting-Host: aremorica.jpl.nasa.gov

This file and other text and image files from JPL missions are
available from the JPL Info public access computer site,
reachable by Internet via anonymous ftp to pubinfo.jpl.nasa.gov
(128.149.6.2); or by dialup modem to +1 (818) 354-1333, up to
9600 bits per second, parameters N-8-1.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Our Solar System at a Glance

Information Summary 
PMS 010-A (JPL)
June 1991

JPL 410-34-1  6/91

NASA
National Aeronautics and Space Administration

Jet Propulsion Laboratory
California Institue of Technology
Pasadena, California


For a printed copy of this publication contact the public mail
office at the NASA center in your geographic region.



INTRODUCTION

     From our small world we have gazed upon the cosmic ocean for
untold thousands of years. Ancient astronomers observed points of
light that appeared to move among the stars. They called these
objects planets, meaning wanderers, and named them after Roman
deities -- Jupiter, king of the gods; Mars, the god of war;
Mercury, messenger of the gods; Venus, the god of love and
beauty, and Saturn, father of Jupiter and god of agriculture. The
stargazers also observed comets with sparkling tails, and meteors
or shooting stars apparently falling from the sky.

     Science flourished during the European Renaissance.
Fundamental physical laws governing planetary motion were
discovered, and the orbits of the planets around the Sun were
calculated. In the 17th century, astronomers pointed a new device
called the telescope at the heavens and made startling
discoveries.

     But the years since 1959 have amounted to a golden age of
solar system exploration. Advancements in rocketry after World
War II enabled our machines to break the grip of Earth's gravity
and travel to the Moon and to other planets.

     The United States has sent automated spacecraft, then
human-crewed expeditions, to explore the Moon. Our automated
machines have orbited and landed on Venus and Mars; explored the
Sun's environment; observed comets, and made close-range surveys
while flying past Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.

     These travelers brought a quantum leap in our knowledge and
understanding of the solar system. Through the electronic sight
and other "senses" of our automated spacecraft, color and
complexion have been given to worlds that for centuries appeared
to Earth-bound eyes as fuzzy disks or indistinct points of light.
And dozens of previously unknown objects have been discovered.

     Future historians will likely view these pioneering flights
through the solar system as some of the most remarkable
achievements of the 20th century.
     

AUTOMATED SPACECRAFT

     The National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA's)
automated spacecraft for solar system exploration come in many
shapes and sizes. While they are designed to fulfill separate and
specific mission objectives, the craft share much in common.

     Each spacecraft consists of various scientific instruments
selected for a particular mission, supported by basic subsystems
for electrical power, trajectory and orientation control, as well
as for processing data and communicating with Earth.

     Electrical power is required to operate the spacecraft
instruments and systems. NASA uses both solar energy from arrays
of photovoltaic cells and small nuclear generators to power its
solar system missions. Rechargeable batteries are employed for
backup and supplemental power.

     Imagine that a spacecraft has successfully journeyed
millions of miles through space to fly but one time near a
planet, only to have its cameras and other sensing instruments
pointed the wrong way as it speeds past the target! To help
prevent such a mishap, a subsystem of small thrusters is used to
control spacecraft.

     The thrusters are linked with devices that maintain a
constant gaze at selected stars. Just as Earth's early seafarers
used the stars to navigate the oceans, spacecraft use stars to
maintain their bearings in space. With the subsystem locked onto
fixed points of reference, flight controllers can keep a
spacecraft's scientific instruments pointed at the target body
and the craft's communications antennas pointed toward Earth. The
thrusters can also be used to fine-tune the flight path and speed
of the spacecraft to ensure that a target body is encountered at
the planned distance and on the proper trajectory.

     Between 1959 and 1971, NASA spacecraft were dispatched to
study the Moon and the solar environment; they also scanned the
inner planets other than Earth -- Mercury, Venus and Mars. These
three worlds, and our own, are known as the terrestrial planets
because they share a solid-rock composition.

     For the early planetary reconnaissance missions, NASA
employed a highly successful series of spacecraft called the
Mariners. Their flights helped shape the planning of later
missions. Between 1962 and 1975, seven Mariner missions conducted
the first surveys of our planetary neighbors in space.

     All of the Mariners used solar panels as their primary power
source. The first and the final versions of the spacecraft had
two wings covered with photovoltaic cells. Other Mariners were
equipped with four solar panels extending from their octagonal
bodies.

     Although the Mariners ranged from the Mariner 2 Venus
spacecraft, weighing in at 203 kilograms (447 pounds), to the
Mariner 9 Mars Orbiter, weighing in at 974 kilograms (2,147
pounds), their basic design remained quite similar throughout the
program. The Mariner 5 Venus spacecraft, for example, had
originally been a backup for the Mariner 4 Mars flyby. The
Mariner 10 spacecraft sent to Venus and Mercury used components
left over from the Mariner 9 Mars Orbiter program.

     In 1972, NASA launched Pioneer 10, a Jupiter spacecraft.
Interest was shifting to four of the outer planets -- Jupiter,
Saturn, Uranus and Neptune -- giant balls of dense gas quite
different from the terrestrial worlds we had already surveyed.

     Four NASA spacecraft in all -- two Pioneers and two Voyagers
-- were sent in the 1970s to tour the outer regions of our solar
system. Because of the distances involved, these travelers took
anywhere from 20 months to 12 years to reach their destinations.
Barring faster spacecraft, they will eventually become the first
human artifacts to journey to distant stars. Because the Sun's
light becomes so faint in the outer solar system, these travelers
do not use solar power but instead operate on electricity
generated by heat from the decay of radioisotopes.

     NASA also developed highly specialized spacecraft to revisit
our neighbors Mars and Venus in the middle and late 1970s. Twin
Viking Landers were equipped to serve as seismic and weather
stations and as biology laboratories. Two advanced orbiters --
descendants of the Mariner craft -- carried the Viking Landers
from Earth and then studied martian features from above.

     Two drum-shaped Pioneer spacecraft visited Venus in 1978.
The Pioneer Venus Orbiter was equipped with a radar instrument
that allowed it to "see" through the planet's dense cloud cover
to study surface features. The Pioneer Venus Multiprobe carried
four probes that were dropped through the clouds. The probes and
the main body -- all of which contained scientific instruments --
radioed information about the planet's atmosphere during their
descent toward the surface.

     A new generation of automated spacecraft -- including
Magellan, Galileo, Ulysses, Mars Observer, the Comet
Rendezvous/Asteroid Flyby (CRAF) and Cassini -- is being
developed and sent out into the solar system to make detailed
examinations that will increase our understanding of our
neighborhood and our own planet.
     

The Sun

     A discussion of the objects in the solar system must start
with the Sun. The Sun dwarfs the other bodies, representing
approximately 99.86 percent of all the mass in the solar system;
all of the planets, moons, asteroids, comets, dust and gas add up
to only about 0.14 percent. This 0.14 percent represents the
material left over from the Sun's formation. One hundred and nine
Earths would be required to fit across the Sun's disk, and its
interior could hold over 1.3 million Earths.

     As a star, the Sun generates energy through the process of
fusion. The temperature at the Sun's core is 15 million degrees
Celsius (27 million degrees Fahrenheit), and the pressure there
is 340 billion times Earth's air pressure at sea level. The Sun's
surface temperature of 5,500 degrees Celsius (10,000 degrees
Fahrenheit) seems almost chilly compared to its core-temperature.
At the solar core, hydrogen can fuse into helium, producing
energy. The Sun also produces a strong magnetic field and streams
of charged particles, both extending far beyond the planets.

     The Sun appears to have been active for 4.6 billion years
and has enough fuel to go on for another five billion years or
so. At the end of its life, the Sun will start to fuse helium
into heavier elements and begin to swell up, ultimately growing
so large that it will swallow Earth. After a billion years as a
"red giant," it will suddenly collapse into a "white dwarf" --
the final end product of a star like ours. It may take a trillion
years to cool off completely.

     Many spacecraft have explored the Sun's environment, but
none have gotten any closer to its surface than approximately
two-thirds of the distance from Earth to the Sun. Pioneers 5-11,
the Pioneer Venus Orbiter, Voyagers 1 and 2 and other spacecraft
have all sampled the solar environment. The Ulysses spacecraft,
launched on October 6, 1990, is a joint solar mission of NASA and
the European Space Agency. After using Jupiter's gravity to
change its trajectory, Ulysses will fly over the Sun's polar
regions during 1994 and 1995 and will perform a wide range of
studies using nine onboard scientific instruments.

     We are fortunate that the Sun is exactly the way it is. If
it were different in almost any way, life would almost certainly
never have developed on Earth.
     

Mercury

     Obtaining the first close-up views of Mercury was the
primary objective of the Mariner 10 spacecraft, launched on
November 3, 1973, from Kennedy Space Center in Florida. After a
journey of nearly five months, which included a flyby of Venus,
the spacecraft passed within 703 kilometers (437 miles) of the
solar system's innermost planet on March 29, 1974.

     Until Mariner 10, little was known about Mercury. Even the
best telescopic views from Earth showed Mercury as an indistinct
object lacking any surface detail. The planet is so close to the
Sun that it is usually lost in solar glare. When the planet is
visible on Earth's horizon just after sunset or before dawn, it
is obscured by the haze and dust in our atmosphere. Only radar
telescopes gave any hint of Mercury's surface conditions prior to
the voyage of Mariner 10.

     The photographs Mariner 10 radioed back to Earth revealed an
ancient, heavily cratered surface, closely resembling our own
Moon. The pictures also showed huge cliffs crisscrossing the
planet. These apparently were created when Mercury's interior
cooled and shrank, buckling the planet's crust. The cliffs are as
high as 3 kilometers (2 miles) and as long as 500 kilometers (310
miles).

     Instruments on Mariner 10 discovered that Mercury has a weak
magnetic field and a trace of atmosphere -- a trillionth the
density of Earth's atmosphere and composed chiefly of argon, neon
and helium. When the planet's orbit takes it closest to the Sun,
surface temperatures range from 467 degrees Celsius (872 degrees
Fahrenheit) on Mercury's sunlit side to -183 degrees Celsius
(-298 degrees Fahrenheit) on the dark side. This range in surface
temperature -- 650 degrees Celsius (1,170 degrees Fahrenheit) --
is the largest for a single body in the solar system. Mercury
literally bakes and freezes at the same time.

     Days and nights are long on Mercury. The combination of a
slow rotation relative to the stars (59 Earth days) and a rapid
revolution around the Sun (88 Earth days) means that one Mercury
solar day takes 176 Earth days or two Mercury years -- the time
it takes the innermost planet to complete two orbits around the
Sun! 

     Mercury appears to have a crust of light silicate rock like
that of Earth. Scientists believe Mercury has a heavy iron-rich
core making up slightly less than half of its volume. That would
make Mercury's core larger, proportionally, than the Moon's core
or those of any of the planets.

     After the initial Mercury encounter, Mariner 10 made two
additional flybys -- on September 21, 1974, and March 16, 1975 --
before control gas used to orient the spacecraft was exhausted
and the mission was concluded. Each flyby took place at the same
local Mercury time when the identical half of the planet was
illuminated; as a result, we still have not seen one-half of the
planet's surface.
     

Venus

     Veiled by dense cloud cover, Venus -- our nearest planetary
neighbor -- was the first planet to be explored. The Mariner 2
spacecraft, launched on August 27, 1962, was the first of more
than a dozen successful American and Soviet missions to study the
mysterious planet. As spacecraft flew by or orbited Venus,
plunged into the atmosphere or gently landed on Venus' surface,
romantic myths and speculations about our neighbor were laid to
rest.

     On December 14, 1962, Mariner 2 passed within 34,839
kilometers (21,648 miles) of Venus and became the first
spacecraft to scan another planet; onboard instruments measured
Venus for 42 minutes. Mariner 5, launched in June 1967, flew much
closer to the planet. Passing within 4,094 kilometers (2,544
miles) of Venus on the second American flyby, Mariner 5's
instruments measured the planet's magnetic field, ionosphere,
radiation belts and temperatures. On its way to Mercury, Mariner
10 flew by Venus and transmitted ultraviolet pictures to Earth
showing cloud circulation patterns in the Venusian atmosphere.

     In the spring and summer of 1978, two spacecraft were
launched to further unravel the mysteries of Venus. On December 4
of the same year, the Pioneer Venus Orbiter became the first
spacecraft placed in orbit around the planet.

     Five days later, the five separate components making up the
second spacecraft -- the Pioneer Venus Multiprobe -- entered the
Venusian atmosphere at different locations above the planet. The
four small, independent probes and the main body radioed
atmospheric data back to Earth during their descent toward the
surface. Although designed to examine the atmosphere, one of the
probes survived its impact with the surface and continued to
transmit data for another hour.

     Venus resembles Earth in size, physical composition and
density more closely than any other known planet. However,
spacecraft have discovered significant differences as well. For
example, Venus' rotation (west to east) is retrograde (backward)
compared to the east-to-west spin of Earth and most of the other
planets.

     Approximately 96.5 percent of Venus' atmosphere (95 times as
dense as Earth's) is carbon dioxide. The principal constituent of
Earth's atmosphere is nitrogen. Venus' atmosphere acts like a
greenhouse, permitting solar radiation to reach the surface but
trapping the heat that would ordinarily be radiated back into
space. As a result, the planet's average surface temperature is
482 degrees Celsius (900 degrees Fahrenheit), hot enough to melt
lead.

     A radio altimeter on the Pioneer Venus Orbiter provided the
first means of seeing through the planet's dense cloud cover and
determining surface features over almost the entire planet.
NASA's Magellan spacecraft, launched on May 5, 1989, has been in
orbit around Venus since August 10, 1990. The spacecraft uses
radar-mapping techniques to provide ultrahigh-resolution images
of the surface.

     Magellan has revealed a landscape dominated by volcanic
features, faults and impact craters. Huge areas of the surface
show evidence of multiple periods of lava flooding with flows
lying on top of previous ones. An elevated region named Ishtar
Terra is a lava-filled basin as large as the United States. At
one end of this plateau sits Maxwell Montes, a mountain the size
of Mount Everest. Scarring the mountain's flank is a
100-kilometer (62-mile) wide, 2.5-kilometer (1.5-mile) deep
impact crater named Cleopatra. (Almost all features on Venus are
named for women; Maxwell Montes, Alpha Regio and Beta Regio are
the exceptions.) Craters survive on Venus for perhaps 400 million
years because there is no water and very little wind erosion.

     Extensive fault-line networks cover the planet, probably the
result of the same crustal flexing that produces plate tectonics
on Earth. But on Venus the surface temperature is sufficient to
weaken the rock, which cracks just about everywhere, preventing
the formation of major plates and large earthquake faults like
the San Andreas Fault in California.

     Venus' predominant weather pattern is a high-altitude,
high-speed circulation of clouds that contain sulfuric acid. At
speeds reaching as high as 360 kilometers (225 miles) per hour,
the clouds circle the planet in only four Earth days. The
circulation is in the same direction -- west to east -- as Venus'
slow rotation of 243 Earth days, whereas Earth's winds blow in
both directions -- west to east and east to west -- in six
alternating bands. Venus' atmosphere serves as a simplified
laboratory for the study of our weather.
     

Earth

     As viewed from space, our world's distinguishing
characteristics are its blue waters, brown and green land masses
and white clouds. We are enveloped by an ocean of air consisting
of 78 percent nitrogen, 21 percent oxygen and 1 percent other
constituents. The only planet in the solar system known to harbor
life, Earth orbits the Sun at an average distance of 150 million
kilometers (93 million miles). Earth is the third planet from the
Sun and the fifth largest in the solar system, with a diameter
just a few hundred kilometers larger than that of Venus.

     Our planet's rapid spin and molten nickel-iron core give
rise to an extensive magnetic field, which, along with the
atmosphere, shields us from nearly all of the harmful radiation
coming from the Sun and other stars. Earth's atmosphere protects
us from meteors as well, most of which burn up before they can
strike the surface. Active geological processes have left no
evidence of the pelting Earth almost certainly received soon
after it formed -- about 4.6 billion years ago. Along with the
other newly formed planets, it was showered by space debris in
the early days of the solar system.

     From our journeys into space, we have learned much about our
home planet. The first American satellite -- Explorer 1 -- was
launched from Cape Canaveral in Florida on January 31, 1958, and
discovered an intense radiation zone, now called the Van Allen
radiation belts, surrounding Earth.

     Since then, other research satellites have revealed that our
planet's magnetic field is distorted into a tear-drop shape by
the solar wind -- the stream of charged particles continuously
ejected from the Sun. We've learned that the magnetic field does
not fade off into space but has definite boundaries. And we now
know that our wispy upper atmosphere, once believed calm and
uneventful, seethes with activity -- swelling by day and
contracting by night. Affected by changes in solar activity, the
upper atmosphere contributes to weather and climate on Earth.

     Besides affecting Earth's weather, solar activity gives rise
to a dramatic visual phenomenon in our atmosphere. When charged
particles from the solar wind become trapped in Earth's magnetic
field, they collide with air molecules above our planet's
magnetic poles. These air molecules then begin to glow and are
known as the auroras or the northern and southern lights.

     Satellites about 35,789 kilometers (22,238 miles) out in
space play a major role in daily local weather forecasting. These
watchful electronic eyes warn us of dangerous storms. Continuous
global monitoring provides a vast amount of useful data and
contributes to a better understanding of Earth's complex weather
systems.

     From their unique vantage points, satellites can survey
Earth's oceans, land use and resources, and monitor the planet's
health. These eyes in space have saved countless lives, provided
tremendous conveniences and shown us that we may be altering our
planet in dangerous ways.
     

The Moon

     The Moon is Earth's single natural satellite. The first
human footsteps on an alien world were made by American
astronauts on the dusty surface of our airless, lifeless
companion. In preparation for the human-crewed Apollo
expeditions, NASA dispatched the automated Ranger, Surveyor and
Lunar Orbiter spacecraft to study the Moon between 1964 and 1968.

     NASA's Apollo program left a large legacy of lunar materials
and data. Six two-astronaut crews landed on and explored the
lunar surface between 1969 and 1972, carrying back a collection
of rocks and soil weighing a total of 382 kilograms (842 pounds)
and consisting of more than 2,000 separate samples.

     From this material and other studies, scientists have
constructed a history of the Moon that includes its infancy.
Rocks collected from the lunar highlands date to about 4.0-4.3
billion years old. The first few million years of the Moon's
existence were so violent that few traces of this period remain.
As a molten outer layer gradually cooled and solidified into
different kinds of rock, the Moon was bombarded by huge asteroids
and smaller objects. Some of the asteroids were as large as Rhode
Island or Delaware, and their collisions with the Moon created
basins hundreds of kilometers across.

     This catastrophic bombardment tapered off approximately four
billion years ago, leaving the lunar highlands covered with huge,
overlapping craters and a deep layer of shattered and broken
rock. Heat produced by the decay of radioactive elements began to
melt the interior of the Moon at depths of about 200 kilometers
(125 miles) below the surface. Then, for the next 700 million
years -- from about 3.8 to 3.1 billion years ago -- lava rose
from inside the Moon. The lava gradually spread out over the
surface, flooding the large impact basins to form the dark areas
that Galileo Galilei, an astronomer of the Italian Renaissance,
called maria, meaning seas.

     As far as we can tell, there has been no significant
volcanic activity on the Moon for more than three billion years.
Since then, the lunar surface has been altered only by
micrometeorites, by the atomic particles from the Sun and stars,
by the rare impacts of large meteorites and by spacecraft and
astronauts. If our astronauts had landed on the Moon a billion
years ago, they would have seen a landscape very similar to the
one today. Thousands of years from now, the footsteps left by the
Apollo crews will remain sharp and clear.

     The origin of the Moon is still a mystery. Four theories
attempt an explanation: the Moon formed near Earth as a separate
body; it was torn from Earth; it formed somewhere else and was
captured by our planet's gravity, or it was the result of a
collision between Earth and an asteroid about the size of Mars.
The last theory has some good support but is far from certain.
     

Mars

     Of all the planets, Mars has long been considered the solar
system's prime candidate for harboring extraterrestrial life.
Astronomers studying the red planet through telescopes saw what
appeared to be straight lines crisscrossing its surface. These
observations -- later determined to be optical illusions -- led
to the popular notion that intelligent beings had constructed a
system of irrigation canals on the planet. In 1938, when Orson
Welles broadcast a radio drama based on the science fiction
classic War of the Worlds  by H.G. Wells, enough people believed
in the tale of invading martians to cause a near panic.

     Another reason for scientists to expect life on Mars had to
do with the apparent seasonal color changes on the planet's
surface. This phenomenon led to speculation that conditions might
support a bloom of martian vegetation during the warmer months
and cause plant life to become dormant during colder periods.

     So far, six American missions to Mars have been carried out.
Four Mariner spacecraft -- three flying by the planet and one
placed into martian orbit -- surveyed the planet extensively
before the Viking Orbiters and Landers arrived.

     Mariner 4, launched in late 1964, flew past Mars on July 14,
1965, coming within 9,846 kilometers (6,118 miles) of the
surface. Transmitting to Earth 22 close-up pictures of the
planet, the spacecraft found many craters and naturally occurring
channels but no evidence of artificial canals or flowing water.
Mariners 6 and 7 followed with their flybys during the summer of
1969 and returned 201 pictures. Mariners 4, 6 and 7 showed a
diversity of surface conditions as well as a thin, cold, dry
atmosphere of carbon dioxide.

     On May 30, 1971, the Mariner 9 Orbiter was launched on a
mission to make a year-long study of the martian surface. The
spacecraft arrived five and a half months after lift-off, only to
find Mars in the midst of a planet-wide dust storm that made
surface photography impossible for several weeks. But after the
storm cleared, Mariner 9 began returning the first of 7,329
pictures; these revealed previously unknown martian features,
including evidence that large amounts of water once flowed across
the surface, etching river valleys and flood plains.

     In August and September 1975, the Viking 1 and 2 spacecraft
-- each consisting of an orbiter and a lander -- lifted off from
Kennedy Space Center. The mission was designed to answer several
questions about the red planet, including, Is there life there?
Nobody expected the spacecraft to spot martian cities, but it was
hoped that the biology experiments on the Viking Landers would at
least find evidence of primitive life -- past or present.

     Viking Lander 1 became the first spacecraft to successfully
touch down on another planet when it landed on July 20, 1976,
while the United States was celebrating its Bicentennial. Photos
sent back from the Chryse Planitia ("Plains of Gold") showed a
bleak, rusty-red landscape. Panoramic images returned by the
lander revealed a rolling plain, littered with rocks and marked
by rippled sand dunes. Fine red dust from the martian soil gives
the sky a salmon hue. When Viking Lander 2 touched down on Utopia
Planitia on September 3, 1976, it viewed a more rolling landscape
than the one seen by its predecessor -- one without visible
dunes.

     The results sent back by the laboratory on each Viking
Lander were inconclusive. Small samples of the red martian soil
were tested in three different experiments designed to detect
biological processes. While some of the test results seemed to
indicate biological activity, later analysis confirmed that this
activity was inorganic in nature and related to the planet's soil
chemistry. Is there life on Mars? No one knows for sure, but the
Viking mission found no evidence that organic molecules exist
there.

     The Viking Landers became weather stations, recording wind
velocity and direction as well as atmospheric temperature and
pressure. Few weather changes were observed. The highest
temperature recorded by either craft was -14 degrees Celsius (7
degrees Fahrenheit) at the Viking Lander 1 site in midsummer.

     The lowest temperature, -120 degrees Celsius (-184 degrees
Fahrenheit), was recorded at the more northerly Viking Lander 2
site during winter. Near-hurricane wind speeds were measured at
the two martian weather stations during global dust storms, but
because the atmosphere is so thin, wind force is minimal. Viking
Lander 2 photographed light patches of frost -- probably
water-ice -- during its second winter on the planet.

     The martian atmosphere, like that of Venus, is primarily
carbon dioxide. Nitrogen and oxygen are present only in small
percentages. Martian air contains only about 1/1,000 as much
water as our air, but even this small amount can condense out,
forming clouds that ride high in the atmosphere or swirl around
the slopes of towering volcanoes. Local patches of early morning
fog can form in valleys.

     There is evidence that in the past a denser martian
atmosphere may have allowed water to flow on the planet. Physical
features closely resembling shorelines, gorges, riverbeds and
islands suggest that great rivers once marked the planet.

     Mars has two moons, Phobos and Deimos. They are small and
irregularly shaped and possess ancient, cratered surfaces. It is
possible the moons were originally asteroids that ventured too
close to Mars and were captured by its gravity.

     The Viking Orbiters and Landers exceeded by large margins
their design lifetimes of 120 and 90 days, respectively. The
first to fail was Viking Orbiter 2, which stopped operating on
July 24, 1978, when a leak depleted its attitude-control gas.
Viking Lander 2 operated until April 12, 1980, when it was shut
down because of battery degeneration. Viking Orbiter 1 quit on
August 7, 1980, when the last of its attitude-control gas was
used up. Viking Lander 1 ceased functioning on November 13, 1983.

     Despite the inconclusive results of the Viking biology
experiments, we know more about Mars than any other planet except
Earth. NASA's Mars Observer spacecraft, to be launched in
September 1992, will expand our knowledge of the martian
environment and lead to human exploration of the red planet. 
     

Asteroids

     The solar system has a large number of rocky and metallic
objects that are in orbit around the Sun but are too small to be
considered full-fledged planets. These objects are known as
asteroids or minor planets. Most, but not all, are found in a
band or belt between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. Some have
orbits that cross Earth's path, and there is evidence that Earth
has been hit by asteroids in the past. One of the least eroded,
best preserved examples is the Barringer Meteor Crater near
Winslow, Arizona.

     Asteroids are material left over from the formation of the
solar system. One theory suggests that they are the remains of a
planet that was destroyed in a massive collision long ago. More
likely, asteroids are material that never coalesced into a
planet. In fact, if the estimated total mass of all asteroids was
gathered into a single object, the object would be only about
1,500 kilometers (932 miles) across -- less than half the
diameter of our Moon. 

     Thousands of asteroids have been identified from Earth. It
is estimated that 100,000 are bright enough to eventually be
photographed through Earth-based telescopes.

     Much of our understanding about asteroids comes from
examining pieces of space debris that fall to the surface of
Earth. Asteroids that are on a collision course with Earth are
called meteoroids. When a meteoroid strikes our atmosphere at
high velocity, friction causes this chunk of space matter to
incinerate in a streak of light known as a meteor. If the
meteoroid does not burn up completely, what's left strikes
Earth's surface and is called a meteorite. One of the best places
to look for meteorites is the ice cap of Antarctica.

     Of all the meteorites examined, 92.8 percent are composed of
silicate (stone), and 5.7 percent are composed of iron and
nickel; the rest are a mixture of the three materials. Stony
meteorites are the hardest to identify since they look very much
like terrestrial rocks.

     Since asteroids are material from the very early solar
system, scientists are interested in their composition.
Spacecraft that have flown through the asteroid belt have found
that the belt is really quite empty and that asteroids are
separated by very large distances.

     Current and future missions will fly by selected asteroids
for closer examination. The Galileo Orbiter, launched by NASA in
October 1989, will investigate main-belt asteroids on its way to
Jupiter. The Comet Rendezvous/Asteroid Flyby (CRAF) and Cassini
missions will also study these far-flung objects. Scheduled for
launch in the latter part of the 1990s, the CRAF and Cassini
missions are a collaborative project of NASA, the European Space
Agency and the federal space agencies of Germany and Italy, as
well as the United States Air Force and the Department of Energy.
One day, space factories will mine the asteroids for raw
materials.
     

Jupiter

     Beyond Mars and the asteroid belt, in the outer regions of
our solar system, lie the giant planets of Jupiter, Saturn,
Uranus and Neptune. In 1972, NASA dispatched the first of four
spacecraft slated to conduct the initial surveys of these
colossal worlds of gas and their moons of ice and rock. Jupiter
was the first port of call.

     Pioneer 10, which lifted off from Kennedy Space Center in
March 1972, was the first spacecraft to penetrate the asteroid
belt and travel to the outer regions of the solar system. In
December 1973, it returned the first close-up images of Jupiter,
flying within 132,252 kilometers (82,178 miles) of the planet's
banded cloud tops. Pioneer 11 followed a year later. Voyagers 1
and 2 were launched in the summer of 1977 and returned
spectacular photographs of Jupiter and its family of satellites
during flybys in 1979.

     These travelers found Jupiter to be a whirling ball of
liquid hydrogen and helium, topped with a colorful atmosphere
composed mostly of gaseous hydrogen and helium. Ammonia ice
crystals form white Jovian clouds. Sulfur compounds (and perhaps
phosphorus) may produce the brown and orange hues that
characterize Jupiter's atmosphere.

     It is likely that methane, ammonia, water and other gases
react to form organic molecules in the regions between the
planet's frigid cloud tops and the warmer hydrogen ocean lying
below. Because of Jupiter's atmospheric dynamics, however, these
organic compounds -- if they exist -- are probably short-lived.

     The Great Red Spot has been observed for centuries through
telescopes on Earth. This hurricane-like storm in Jupiter's
atmosphere is more than twice the size of our planet. As a
high-pressure region, the Great Red Spot spins in a direction
opposite to that of low-pressure storms on Jupiter; it is
surrounded by swirling currents that rotate around the spot and
are sometimes consumed by it. The Great Red Spot might be a
million years old.

     Our spacecraft detected lightning in Jupiter's upper
atmosphere and observed auroral emissions similar to Earth's
northern lights at the Jovian polar regions. Voyager 1 returned
the first images of a faint, narrow ring encircling Jupiter.

     Largest of the solar system's planets, Jupiter rotates at a
dizzying pace -- once every 9 hours 55 minutes 30 seconds. The
massive planet takes almost 12 Earth years to complete a journey
around the Sun. With 16 known moons, Jupiter is something of a
miniature solar system.

     A new mission to Jupiter -- the Galileo Project -- is under
way. After a six- year cruise that takes the Galileo Orbiter once
past Venus, twice past Earth and the Moon and once past two
asteroids, the spacecraft will drop an atmospheric probe into
Jupiter's cloud layers and relay data back to Earth. The Galileo
Orbiter will spend two years circling the planet and flying close
to Jupiter's large moons, exploring in detail what the two
Pioneers and two Voyagers revealed.
     

Galilean Satellites

     In 1610, Galileo Galilei aimed his telescope at Jupiter and
spotted four points of light orbiting the planet. For the first
time, humans had seen the moons of another world. In honor of
their discoverer, these four bodies would become known as the
Galilean satellites or moons. But Galileo might have happily
traded this honor for one look at the dazzling photographs
returned by the Voyager spacecraft as they flew past these
planet-sized satellites.

     One of the most remarkable findings of the Voyager mission
was the presence of active volcanoes on the Galilean moon Io.
Volcanic eruptions had never before been observed on a world
other than Earth. The Voyager cameras identified at least nine
active volcanoes on Io, with plumes of ejected material extending
as far as 280 kilometers (175 miles) above the moon's surface.

     Io's pizza-colored terrain, marked by orange and yellow
hues, is probably the result of sulfur-rich materials brought to
the surface by volcanic activity. Volcanic activity on this
satellite is the result of tidal flexing caused by the
gravitational tug-of-war between Io, Jupiter and the other three
Galilean moons.

     Europa, approximately the same size as our Moon, is the
brightest Galilean satellite. The moon's surface displays a
complex array of streaks, indicating the crust has been
fractured. Caught in a gravitational tug-of-war like Io, Europa
has been heated enough to cause its interior ice to melt --
apparently producing a liquid-water ocean. This ocean is covered
by an ice crust that has formed where water is exposed to the
cold of space. Europa's core is made of rock that sank to its
center.

     Like Europa, the other two Galilean moons -- Ganymede and
Callisto -- are worlds of ice and rock. Ganymede is the largest
satellite in the solar system -- larger than the planets Mercury
and Pluto. The satellite is composed of about 50 percent water or
ice and the rest rock. Ganymede's surface has areas of different
brightness, indicating that, in the past, material oozed out of
the moon's interior and was deposited at various locations on the
surface.

     Callisto, only slightly smaller than Ganymede, has the
lowest density of any Galilean satellite, suggesting that large
amounts of water are part of its composition. Callisto is the
most heavily cratered object in the solar system; no activity
during its history has erased old craters except more impacts.

     Detailed studies of all the Galilean satellites will be
performed by the Galileo Orbiter.
     

Saturn

     No planet in the solar system is adorned like Saturn. Its
exquisite ring system is unrivaled. Like Jupiter, Saturn is
composed mostly of hydrogen. But in contrast to the vivid colors
and wild turbulence found in Jovian clouds, Saturn's atmosphere
has a more subtle, butterscotch hue, and its markings are muted
by high-altitude haze. Given Saturn's somewhat placid-looking
appearance, scientists were surprised at the high-velocity
equatorial jet stream that blows some 1,770 kilometers (1,100
miles) per hour.

     Three American spacecraft have visited Saturn. Pioneer 11
sped by the planet and its moon Titan in September 1979,
returning the first close-up images. Voyager 1 followed in
November 1980, sending back breathtaking photographs that
revealed for the first time the complexities of Saturn's ring
system and moons. Voyager 2 flew by the planet and its moons in
August 1981.

     The rings are composed of countless low-density particles
orbiting individually around Saturn's equator at progressive
distances from the cloud tops. Analysis of spacecraft radio waves
passing through the rings showed that the particles vary widely
in size, ranging from dust to house-sized boulders. The rings are
bright because they are mostly ice and frosted rock.

     The rings might have resulted when a moon or a passing body
ventured too close to Saturn. The unlucky object would have been
torn apart by great tidal forces on its surface and in its
interior. Or the object may not have been fully formed to begin
with and disintegrated under the influence of Saturn's gravity. A
third possibility is that the object was shattered by collisions
with larger objects orbiting the planet.

     Unable either to form into a moon or to drift away from each
other, individual ring particles appear to be held in place by
the gravitational pull of Saturn and its satellites. These
complex gravitational interactions form the thousands of ringlets
that make up the major rings.

     Radio emissions quite similar to the static heard on an AM
car radio during an electrical storm were detected by the Voyager
spacecraft. These emissions are typical of lightning but are
believed to be coming from Saturn's ring system rather than its
atmosphere, where no lightning was observed. As they had at
Jupiter, the Voyagers saw a version of Earth's auroras near
Saturn's poles.

     The Voyagers discovered new moons and found several
satellites that share the same orbit. We learned that some moons
shepherd ring particles, maintaining Saturn's rings and the gaps
in the rings. Saturn's 18th moon was discovered in 1990 from
images taken by Voyager 2 in 1981. 

     Voyager 1 determined that Titan has a nitrogen-based
atmosphere with methane and argon -- one more like Earth's in
composition than the carbon dioxide atmospheres of Mars and
Venus. Titan's surface temperature of -179 degrees Celsius (-290
degrees Fahrenheit) implies that there might be water-ice islands
rising above oceans of ethane-methane liquid or sludge.
Unfortunately, Voyager's cameras could not penetrate the moon's
dense clouds.

     Continuing photochemistry from solar radiation may be
converting Titan's methane to ethane, acetylene and -- in
combination with nitrogen -- hydrogen cyanide. The latter
compound is a building block of amino acids. These conditions may
be similar to the atmospheric conditions of primeval Earth
between three and four billion years ago. However, Titan's
atmospheric temperature is believed to be too low to permit
progress beyond this stage of organic chemistry.

     The exploration of Saturn will continue with the Cassini
mission. The Cassini spacecraft will orbit the planet and will
also deploy a probe called Huygens, which will be dropped into
Titan's atmosphere and fall to the surface. Cassini will use the
probe as well as radar to peer through Titan's clouds and will
spend years examining the Saturnian system.
     

Uranus

     In January 1986, four and a half years after visiting
Saturn, Voyager 2 completed the first close-up survey of the
Uranian system. The brief flyby revealed more information about
Uranus and its retinue of icy moons than had been gleaned from
ground observations since the planet's discovery over two
centuries ago by the English astronomer William Herschel.

     Uranus, third largest of the planets, is an oddball of the
solar system. Unlike the other planets (with the exception of
Pluto), this giant lies tipped on its side with its north and
south poles alternately facing the sun during an 84-year swing
around the solar system. During Voyager 2's flyby, the south pole
faced the Sun. Uranus might have been knocked over when an
Earth-sized object collided with it early in the life of the
solar system.

     Voyager 2 found that Uranus' magnetic field does not follow
the usual north-south axis found on the other planets. Instead,
the field is tilted 60 degrees and offset from the planet's
center, a phenomenon that on Earth would be like having one
magnetic pole in New York City and the other in the city of
Djakarta, on the island of Java in Indonesia.

     Uranus' atmosphere consists mainly of hydrogen, with some 12
percent helium and small amounts of ammonia, methane and water
vapor. The planet's blue color occurs because methane in its
atmosphere absorbs all other colors. Wind speeds range up to 580
kilometers (360 miles) per hour, and temperatures near the cloud
tops average -221 degrees Celsius (-366 degrees Fahrenheit).

     Uranus' sunlit south pole is shrouded in a kind of
photochemical "smog" believed to be a combination of acetylene,
ethane and other sunlight-generated chemicals. Surrounding the
planet's atmosphere and extending thousands of kilometers into
space is a mysterious ultraviolet sheen known as "electroglow."

     Approximately 8,000 kilometers (5,000 miles) below Uranus'
cloud tops, there is thought to be a scalding ocean of water and
dissolved ammonia some 10,000 kilometers (6,200 miles) deep.
Beneath this ocean is an Earth-sized core of heavier materials.

     Voyager 2 discovered 10 new moons, 16-169 kilometers (10-105
miles) in diameter, orbiting Uranus. The five previously known --
Miranda, Ariel, Umbriel, Titania and Oberon -- range in size from
520 to 1,610 kilometers (323 to 1,000 miles) across. Representing
a geological showcase, these five moons are half-ice, half-rock
spheres that are cold and dark and show evidence of past
activity, including faulting and ice flows.

     The most remarkable of Uranus' moons is Miranda. Its surface
features high cliffs as well as canyons, crater-pocked plains and
winding valleys. The sharp variations in terrain suggest that,
after the moon formed, it was smashed apart by a collision with
another body -- an event not unusual in our solar system, which
contains many objects that have impact craters or are fragments
from large impacts. What is extraordinary is that Miranda
apparently reformed with some of the material that had been in
its interior exposed on its surface.

     Uranus was thought to have nine dark rings; Voyager 2 imaged
11. In contrast to Saturn's rings, which are composed of bright
particles, Uranus' rings are primarily made up of dark,
boulder-sized chunks.
     

Neptune

     Voyager 2 completed its 12-year tour of the solar system
with an investigation of Neptune and the planet's moons. On
August 25, 1989, the spacecraft swept to within 4,850 kilometers
(3,010 miles) of Neptune and then flew on to the moon Triton.
During the Neptune encounter it became clear that the planet's
atmosphere was more active than Uranus'. 

     Voyager 2 observed the Great Dark Spot, a circular storm the
size of Earth, in Neptune's atmosphere. Resembling Jupiter's
Great Red Spot, the storm spins counterclockwise and moves
westward at almost 1,200 kilometers (745 miles) per hour. Voyager
2 also noted a smaller dark spot and a fast-moving cloud dubbed
the "Scooter," as well as high-altitude clouds over the main
hydrogen and helium cloud deck. The highest wind speeds of any
planet were observed, up to 2,400 kilometers (1,500 miles) per
hour.

     Like the other giant planets, Neptune has a gaseous hydrogen
and helium upper layer over a liquid interior. The planet's core
contains a higher percentage of rock and metal than those of the
other gas giants. Neptune's distinctive blue appearance, like
Uranus' blue color, is due to atmospheric methane.

     Neptune's magnetic field is tilted relative to the planet's
spin axis and is not centered at the core. This phenomenon is
similar to Uranus' magnetic field and suggests that the fields of
the two giants are being generated in an area above the cores,
where the pressure is so great that liquid hydrogen assumes the
electrical properties of a metal. Earth's magnetic field, on the
other hand, is produced by its spinning metallic core and is only
slightly tilted and offset relative to its center.

     Voyager 2 also shed light on the mystery of Neptune's rings.
Observations from Earth indicated that there were arcs of
material in orbit around the giant planet. It was not clear how
Neptune could have arcs and how these could be kept from
spreading out into even, unclumped rings. Voyager 2 detected
these arcs, but they were, in fact, part of thin, complete rings.
A number of small moons could explain the arcs, but such bodies
were not spotted.

     Astronomers had identified the Neptunian moons Triton in
1846 and Nereid in 1949. Voyager 2 found six more. One of the new
moons -- Proteus -- is actually larger than Nereid, but since
Proteus orbits close to Neptune, it was lost in the planet's
glare for observers on Earth.

      Triton circles Neptune in a retrograde orbit in under six
days. Tidal forces on Triton are causing it to spiral slowly
towards the planet. In 10 to 100 million years (a short time in
astronomical terms), the moon will be so close that Neptunian
gravity will tear it apart, forming a spectacular ring to
accompany the planet's modest current rings.

     Triton's landscape is as strange and unexpected as those of
Io and Miranda. The moon has more rock than its counterparts at
Saturn and Uranus. Triton's mantle is probably composed of
water-ice, but the moon's crust is a thin veneer of nitrogen and
methane. The moon shows two dramatically different types of
terrain: the so-called "cantaloupe" terrain and a receding ice
cap. 

     Dark streaks appear on the ice cap. These streaks are the
fallout from geyser-like volcanic vents that shoot nitrogen gas
and dark, fine-grained particles to heights of 2 to 8 kilometers
(1 to 5 miles). Triton's thin atmosphere, only 1/70,000th as
thick as Earth's, has winds that carry the dark particles and
deposit them as streaks on the ice cap -- the coldest surface yet
found in the solar system (-235 degrees Celsius, -391 degrees
Fahrenheit). Triton might be more like Pluto than any other
object spacecraft have so far visited.
     

Pluto

     Pluto is the most distant of the planets, yet the
eccentricity of its orbit periodically carries it inside
Neptune's orbit, where it has been since 1979 and where it will
remain until March 1999. Pluto's orbit is also highly inclined --
tilted 17 degrees to the orbital plane of the other planets.

     Discovered in 1930, Pluto appears to be little more than a
celestial snowball. The planet's diameter is calculated to be
approximately 2,300 kilometers (1,430 miles), only two-thirds the
size of our Moon. Ground-based observations indicate that Pluto's
surface is covered with methane ice and that there is a thin
atmosphere that may freeze and fall to the surface as the planet
moves away from the Sun. Observations also show that Pluto's spin
axis is tipped by 122 degrees. 

     The planet has one known satellite, Charon, discovered in
1978. Charon's surface composition is different from Pluto's: the
moon appears to be covered with water-ice rather than methane
ice. Its orbit is gravitationally locked with Pluto, so both
bodies always keep the same hemisphere facing each other. Pluto's
and Charon's rotational period and Charon's period of revolution
are all 6.4 Earth days. 

     Although no spacecraft have ever visited Pluto, NASA is
currently exploring the possibility of such a mission.
     

Comets

     The outermost members of the solar system occasionally pay a
visit to the inner planets. As asteroids are the rocky and
metallic remnants of the formation of the solar system, comets
are the icy debris from that dim beginning and can survive only
far from the Sun. Most comet nuclei reside in the Oort Cloud, a
loose swarm of objects in a halo beyond the planets and reaching
perhaps halfway to the nearest star.

     Comet nuclei orbit in this frozen abyss until they are
gravitationally perturbed into new orbits that carry them close
to the Sun. As a nucleus falls inside the orbits of the outer
planets, the volatile elements of which it is made gradually
warm; by the time the nucleus enters the region of the inner
planets, these volatile elements are boiling. The nucleus itself
is irregular and only a few miles across, and is made principally
of water-ice with methane and ammonia -- materials very similar
to those composing the moons of the giant planets.

     As these materials boil off of the nucleus, they form a coma
or cloud-like "head" that can measure tens of thousands of
kilometers across. The coma grows as the comet gets closer to the
Sun. The stream of charged particles coming from the Sun pushes
on this cloud, blowing it back like a flag in the wind and giving
rise to the comet's "tails." Gases and ions are blown directly
back from the nucleus, but dust particles are pushed more slowly.
As the nucleus continues in its orbit, the dust particles are
left behind in a curved arc.

     Both the gas and dust tails point away from the Sun; in
effect, the comet chases its tails as it recedes from the Sun.
The tails can reach 150 million kilometers (93 million miles) in
length, but the total amount of material contained in this
dramatic display would fit in an ordinary suitcase. Comets --
from the Latin cometa, meaning "long-haired" -- are essentially
dramatic light shows.

     Some comets pass through the solar system only once, but
others have their orbits gravitationally modified by a close
encounter with one of the giant outer planets. These latter
visitors can enter closed elliptical orbits and repeatedly return
to the inner solar system.

     Halley's Comet is the most famous example of a relatively
short period comet, returning on an average of once every 76
years and orbiting from beyond Neptune to within Venus' orbit.
Confirmed sightings of the comet go back to 240 B.C. This regular
visitor to our solar system is named for Sir Edmond Halley,
because he plotted the comet's orbit and predicted its return,
based on earlier sightings and Newtonian laws of motion. His name
became part of astronomical lore when, in 1759, the comet
returned on schedule. Unfortunately, Sir Edmond did not live to
see it.

     A comet can be very prominent in the sky if it passes
comparatively close to Earth. Unfortunately, on its most recent
appearance, Halley's Comet passed no closer than 62.4 million
kilometers (38.8 million miles) from our world. The comet was
visible to the naked eye, especially for viewers in the southern
hemisphere, but it was not spectacular. Comets have been so
bright, on rare occasions, that they were visible during daytime.
Historically, comet sightings have been interpreted as bad omens
and have been artistically rendered as daggers in the sky.

     The Comet Rendezvous/Asteroid Flyby (CRAF) spacecraft will
become the first traveler to fly close to a comet nucleus and
remain in proximity to it as they both approach the Sun. CRAF
will observe the nucleus as it becomes active in the growing
sunlight and begins to have its lighter elements boil off and
form a coma and tails. Several spacecraft have flown by comets at
high speed; the first was NASA's International Cometary Explorer
in 1985. An armada of five spacecraft (two Japanese, two Soviet
and the Giotto spacecraft from the European Space Agency) flew by
Halley's Comet in 1986.
     

Conclusion

     Despite their efforts to peer across the vast distances of
space through an obscuring atmosphere, scientists of the past had
only one body they could study closely -- Earth. But since 1959,
spaceflight through the solar system has lifted the veil on our
neighbors in space. 

     We have learned more about our solar system and its members
than anyone had in the previous thousands of years. Our automated
spacecraft have traveled to the Moon and to all the planets
beyond our world except Pluto; they have observed moons as large
as small planets, flown by comets and sampled the solar
environment. Astronomy books now include detailed pictures of
bodies that were only smudges in the largest telescopes for
generations. We are lucky to be alive now to see these strange
and beautiful places and objects.

     The knowledge gained from our journeys through the solar
system has redefined traditional Earth sciences like geology and
meteorology and spawned an entirely new discipline called
comparative planetology. By studying the geology of planets,
moons, asteroids and comets, and comparing differences and
similarities, we are learning more about the origin and history
of these bodies and the solar system as a whole.

     We are also gaining insight into Earth's complex weather
systems. By seeing how weather is shaped on other worlds and by
investigating the Sun's activity and its influence throughout the
solar system, we can better understand climatic conditions and
processes on Earth.

     We will continue to learn and benefit as our automated
spacecraft explore our neighborhood in space. One current mission
is mapping Venus; others are flying between worlds and will reach
the Sun and Jupiter after complex trajectory adjustments. Future
missions are planned for Mars, Saturn, a comet and the asteroid
belt.

     We can also look forward to the time when humans will once
again set foot on an alien world. Although astronauts have not
been back to the Moon since December 1972, plans are being
formulated for our return to the lunar landscape and for the
human exploration of Mars and even the establishment of martian
outposts. One day, taking a holiday may mean spending a week at a
lunar base or a martian colony!

- end -
     

========== END RAW ============================

Preprocessed:
============ START PREPROCESSED =================
 jpl info summari solar system glanc     file text
imag file jpl mission avail jpl info public access
comput site reachabl internet via anonym ftp
pubinfo jpl nasa gov dialup modem bit per second
paramet   solar system glanc  inform summari pms
jpl   jpl  nasa nation aeronaut space administr
jet propuls laboratori california institu
technolog pasadena california   print copi public
contact public mail offic nasa center geograph
region    introduct  small world gaze upon cosmic
ocean untold thousand year ancient astronom observ
point light appear move among star call object
planet mean wander name roman deiti jupit king god
mar god war mercuri messeng god venus god love
beauti saturn father jupit god agricultur stargaz
also observ comet sparkl tail meteor shoot star
appar fall sky  scienc flourish european renaiss
fundament physic law govern planetari motion
discov orbit planet around sun calcul 17th centuri
astronom point new devic call telescop heaven made
startl discoveri  year sinc amount golden age
solar system explor advanc rocketri world war
enabl machin break grip earth graviti travel moon
planet  unit state sent autom spacecraft human
crew expedit explor moon autom machin orbit land
venus mar explor sun environ observ comet made
close rang survey fli past mercuri jupit saturn
uranus neptun  travel brought quantum leap
knowledg understand solar system electron sight
sens autom spacecraft color complexion given world
centuri appear earth bound eye fuzzi disk
indistinct point light dozen previous unknown
object discov  futur historian like view pioneer
flight solar system remark achiev 20th centuri
autom spacecraft  nation aeronaut space administr
nasa autom spacecraft solar system explor come
mani shape size design fulfil separ specif mission
object craft share much common  spacecraft consist
various scientif instrument select particular
mission support basic subsystem electr power
trajectori orient control well process data
communic earth  electr power requir oper
spacecraft instrument system nasa use solar energi
array photovolta cell small nuclear generat power
solar system mission recharg batteri employ backup
supplement power  imagin spacecraft success
journey million mile space fli one time near
planet camera sens instrument point wrong way
speed past target help prevent mishap subsystem
small thruster use control spacecraft  thruster
link devic maintain constant gaze select star
earth earli seafar use star navig ocean spacecraft
use star maintain bear space subsystem lock onto
fix point refer flight control keep spacecraft
scientif instrument point target bodi craft
communic antenna point toward earth thruster also
use fine tune flight path speed spacecraft ensur
target bodi encount plan distanc proper trajectori
nasa spacecraft dispatch studi moon solar environ
also scan inner planet earth mercuri venus mar
three world known terrestri planet share solid
rock composit  earli planetari reconnaiss mission
nasa employ high success seri spacecraft call
marin flight help shape plan later mission seven
marin mission conduct first survey planetari
neighbor space  marin use solar panel primari
power sourc first final version spacecraft two
wing cover photovolta cell marin equip four solar
panel extend octagon bodi  although marin rang
marin venus spacecraft weigh kilogram pound marin
mar orbit weigh kilogram pound basic design remain
quit similar throughout program marin venus
spacecraft exampl origin backup marin mar flybi
marin spacecraft sent venus mercuri use compon
left marin mar orbit program  nasa launch pioneer
jupit spacecraft interest shift four outer planet
jupit saturn uranus neptun giant ball dens gas
quit differ terrestri world alreadi survey  four
nasa spacecraft two pioneer two voyag sent 1970s
tour outer region solar system distanc involv
travel took anywher month year reach destin bar
faster spacecraft eventu becom first human
artifact journey distant star sun light becom
faint outer solar system travel use solar power
instead oper electr generat heat decay radioisotop
nasa also develop high special spacecraft revisit
neighbor mar venus middl late 1970s twin vike
lander equip serv seismic weather station biolog
laboratori two advanc orbit descend marin craft
carri vike lander earth studi martian featur  two
drum shape pioneer spacecraft visit venus pioneer
venus orbit equip radar instrument allow see
planet dens cloud cover studi surfac featur
pioneer venus multiprob carri four probe drop
cloud probe main bodi contain scientif instrument
radio inform planet atmospher descent toward
surfac  new generat autom spacecraft includ
magellan galileo ulyss mar observ comet rendezv
asteroid flybi craf cassini develop sent solar
system make detail examin increas understand
neighborhood planet   sun  discuss object solar
system must start sun sun dwarf bodi repres
approxim percent mass solar system planet moon
asteroid comet dust gas add percent percent repres
materi left sun format one hundr nine earth requir
fit across sun disk interior could hold million
earth  star sun generat energi process fusion
temperatur sun core million degre celsius million
degre fahrenheit pressur billion time earth air
pressur sea level sun surfac temperatur degre
celsius degre fahrenheit seem almost chilli compar
core temperatur solar core hydrogen fuse helium
produc energi sun also produc strong magnet field
stream charg particl extend far beyond planet  sun
appear activ billion year enough fuel anoth five
billion year end life sun start fuse helium
heavier element begin swell ultim grow larg
swallow earth billion year red giant sudden
collaps white dwarf final end product star like
take trillion year cool complet  mani spacecraft
explor sun environ none gotten closer surfac
approxim two third distanc earth sun pioneer
pioneer venus orbit voyag spacecraft sampl solar
environ ulyss spacecraft launch octob joint solar
mission nasa european space agenc use jupit
graviti chang trajectori ulyss fli sun polar
region perform wide rang studi use nine onboard
scientif instrument  fortun sun exact way differ
almost way life almost certain never develop earth
mercuri  obtain first close view mercuri primari
object marin spacecraft launch novemb kennedi
space center florida journey near five month
includ flybi venus spacecraft pass within kilomet
mile solar system innermost planet march  marin
littl known mercuri even best telescop view earth
show mercuri indistinct object lack surfac detail
planet close sun usual lost solar glare planet
visibl earth horizon sunset dawn obscur haze dust
atmospher radar telescop gave hint mercuri surfac
condit prior voyag marin  photograph marin radio
back earth reveal ancient heavili crater surfac
close resembl moon pictur also show huge cliff
crisscross planet appar creat mercuri interior
cool shrank buckl planet crust cliff high kilomet
mile long kilomet mile  instrument marin discov
mercuri weak magnet field trace atmospher
trillionth densiti earth atmospher compos chiefli
argon neon helium planet orbit take closest sun
surfac temperatur rang degre celsius degre
fahrenheit mercuri sunlit side degre celsius degre
fahrenheit dark side rang surfac temperatur degre
celsius degre fahrenheit largest singl bodi solar
system mercuri liter bake freez time  day night
long mercuri combin slow rotat relat star earth
day rapid revolut around sun earth day mean one
mercuri solar day take earth day two mercuri year
time take innermost planet complet two orbit
around sun  mercuri appear crust light silic rock
like earth scientist believ mercuri heavi iron
rich core make slight less half volum make mercuri
core larger proport moon core planet  initi
mercuri encount marin made two addit flybi septemb
march control gas use orient spacecraft exhaust
mission conclud flybi took place local mercuri
time ident half planet illumin result still seen
one half planet surfac   venus  veil dens cloud
cover venus nearest planetari neighbor first
planet explor marin spacecraft launch august first
dozen success american soviet mission studi
mysteri planet spacecraft flew orbit venus plung
atmospher gentl land venus surfac romant myth
specul neighbor laid rest  decemb marin pass
within kilomet mile venus becam first spacecraft
scan anoth planet onboard instrument measur venus
minut marin launch flew much closer planet pass
within kilomet mile venus second american flybi
marin instrument measur planet magnet field
ionospher radiat belt temperatur way mercuri marin
flew venus transmit ultraviolet pictur earth show
cloud circul pattern venusian atmospher  spring
summer two spacecraft launch unravel mysteri venus
decemb year pioneer venus orbit becam first
spacecraft place orbit around planet  five day
later five separ compon make second spacecraft
pioneer venus multiprob enter venusian atmospher
differ locat planet four small independ probe main
bodi radio atmospher data back earth descent
toward surfac although design examin atmospher one
probe surviv impact surfac continu transmit data
anoth hour  venus resembl earth size physic
composit densiti close known planet howev
spacecraft discov signific differ well exampl
venus rotat west east retrograd backward compar
east west spin earth planet  approxim percent
venus atmospher time dens earth carbon dioxid
princip constitu earth atmospher nitrogen venus
atmospher act like greenhous permit solar radiat
reach surfac trap heat ordinarili radiat back
space result planet averag surfac temperatur degre
celsius degre fahrenheit hot enough melt lead
radio altimet pioneer venus orbit provid first
mean see planet dens cloud cover determin surfac
featur almost entir planet nasa magellan
spacecraft launch orbit around venus sinc august
spacecraft use radar map techniqu provid ultrahigh
resolut imag surfac  magellan reveal landscap
domin volcan featur fault impact crater huge area
surfac show evid multipl period lava flood flow
lie top previous one elev region name ishtar terra
lava fill basin larg unit state one end plateau
sit maxwel mont mountain size mount everest scar
mountain flank kilomet mile wide kilomet mile deep
impact crater name cleopatra almost featur venus
name women maxwel mont alpha regio beta regio
except crater surviv venus perhap million year
water littl wind eros  extens fault line network
cover planet probabl result crustal flex produc
plate tecton earth venus surfac temperatur suffici
weaken rock crack everywher prevent format major
plate larg earthquak fault like san andrea fault
california  venus predomin weather pattern high
altitud high speed circul cloud contain sulfur
acid speed reach high kilomet mile per hour cloud
circl planet four earth day circul direct west
east venus slow rotat earth day wherea earth wind
blow direct west east east west six altern band
venus atmospher serv simplifi laboratori studi
weather   earth  view space world distinguish
characterist blue water brown green land mass
white cloud envelop ocean air consist percent
nitrogen percent oxygen percent constitu planet
solar system known harbor life earth orbit sun
averag distanc million kilomet million mile earth
third planet sun fifth largest solar system diamet
hundr kilomet larger venus  planet rapid spin
molten nickel iron core give rise extens magnet
field along atmospher shield near harm radiat come
sun star earth atmospher protect meteor well burn
strike surfac activ geolog process left evid pelt
earth almost certain receiv soon form billion year
ago along newli form planet shower space debri
earli day solar system  journey space learn much
home planet first american satellit explor launch
cape canaver florida januari discov intens radiat
zone call van allen radiat belt surround earth
sinc research satellit reveal planet magnet field
distort tear drop shape solar wind stream charg
particl continu eject sun we'v learn magnet field
fade space definit boundari know wispi upper
atmospher believ calm unev seeth activ swell day
contract night affect chang solar activ upper
atmospher contribut weather climat earth  besid
affect earth weather solar activ give rise dramat
visual phenomenon atmospher charg particl solar
wind becom trap earth magnet field collid air
molecul planet magnet pole air molecul begin glow
known aurora northern southern light  satellit
kilomet mile space play major role daili local
weather forecast watch electron eye warn danger
storm continu global monitor provid vast amount
use data contribut better understand earth complex
weather system  uniqu vantag point satellit survey
earth ocean land use resourc monitor planet health
eye space save countless live provid tremend
conveni shown alter planet danger way   moon  moon
earth singl natur satellit first human footstep
alien world made american astronaut dusti surfac
airless lifeless companion prepar human crew
apollo expedit nasa dispatch autom ranger surveyor
lunar orbit spacecraft studi moon  nasa apollo
program left larg legaci lunar materi data six two
astronaut crew land explor lunar surfac carri back
collect rock soil weigh total kilogram pound
consist separ sampl  materi studi scientist
construct histori moon includ infanc rock collect
lunar highland date billion year old first million
year moon exist violent trace period remain molten
outer layer gradual cool solidifi differ kind rock
moon bombard huge asteroid smaller object asteroid
larg rhode island delawar collis moon creat basin
hundr kilomet across  catastroph bombard taper
approxim four billion year ago leav lunar highland
cover huge overlap crater deep layer shatter
broken rock heat produc decay radioact element
began melt interior moon depth kilomet mile surfac
next million year billion year ago lava rose insid
moon lava gradual spread surfac flood larg impact
basin form dark area galileo galilei astronom
italian renaiss call maria mean sea  far tell
signific volcan activ moon three billion year sinc
lunar surfac alter micrometeorit atom particl sun
star rare impact larg meteorit spacecraft
astronaut astronaut land moon billion year ago
seen landscap similar one today thousand year
footstep left apollo crew remain sharp clear
origin moon still mysteri four theori attempt
explan moon form near earth separ bodi torn earth
form somewher els captur planet graviti result
collis earth asteroid size mar last theori good
support far certain   mar  planet mar long consid
solar system prime candid harbor extraterrestri
life astronom studi red planet telescop saw appear
straight line crisscross surfac observ later
determin optic illus led popular notion intellig
be construct system irrig canal planet orson well
broadcast radio drama base scienc fiction classic
war world well enough peopl believ tale invad
martian caus near panic  anoth reason scientist
expect life mar appar season color chang planet
surfac phenomenon led specul condit might support
bloom martian veget warmer month caus plant life
becom dormant colder period  far six american
mission mar carri four marin spacecraft three fli
planet one place martian orbit survey planet
extens vike orbit lander arriv  marin launch late
flew past mar come within kilomet mile surfac
transmit earth close pictur planet spacecraft
found mani crater natur occur channel evid
artifici canal flow water marin follow flybi
summer return pictur marin show divers surfac
condit well thin cold dri atmospher carbon dioxid
marin orbit launch mission make year long studi
martian surfac spacecraft arriv five half month
lift find mar midst planet wide dust storm made
surfac photographi imposs sever week storm clear
marin began return first pictur reveal previous
unknown martian featur includ evid larg amount
water flow across surfac etch river valley flood
plain  august septemb vike spacecraft consist
orbit lander lift kennedi space center mission
design answer sever question red planet includ
life nobodi expect spacecraft spot martian citi
hope biolog experi vike lander least find evid
primit life past present  vike lander becam first
spacecraft success touch anoth planet land unit
state celebr bicentenni photo sent back chryse
planitia plain gold show bleak rusti red landscap
panoram imag return lander reveal roll plain
litter rock mark rippl sand dune fine red dust
martian soil give sky salmon hue vike lander touch
utopia planitia septemb view roll landscap one
seen predecessor one without visibl dune  result
sent back laboratori vike lander inconclus small
sampl red martian soil test three differ experi
design detect biolog process test result seem
indic biolog activ later analysi confirm activ
inorgan natur relat planet soil chemistri life mar
one know sure vike mission found evid organ
molecul exist   vike lander becam weather station
record wind veloc direct well atmospher temperatur
pressur weather chang observ highest temperatur
record either craft degre celsius degre fahrenheit
vike lander site midsumm  lowest temperatur degre
celsius degre fahrenheit record norther vike
lander site winter near hurrican wind speed measur
two martian weather station global dust storm
atmospher thin wind forc minim vike lander
photograph light patch frost probabl water ice
second winter planet  martian atmospher like venus
primarili carbon dioxid nitrogen oxygen present
small percentag martian air contain much water air
even small amount condens form cloud ride high
atmospher swirl around slope tower volcano local
patch earli morn fog form valley  evid past denser
martian atmospher allow water flow planet physic
featur close resembl shorelin gorg riverb island
suggest great river mark planet  mar two moon
phobo deimo small irregular shape possess ancient
crater surfac possibl moon origin asteroid ventur
close mar captur graviti  vike orbit lander exceed
larg margin design lifetim day respect first fail
vike orbit stop oper leak deplet attitud control
gas vike lander oper april shut batteri degener
vike orbit quit august last attitud control gas
use vike lander ceas function novemb  despit
inconclus result vike biolog experi know mar
planet except earth nasa mar observ spacecraft
launch septemb expand knowledg martian environ
lead human explor red planet   asteroid  solar
system larg number rocki metal object orbit around
sun small consid full fledg planet object known
asteroid minor planet found band belt orbit mar
jupit orbit cross earth path evid earth hit
asteroid past one least erod best preserv exampl
barring meteor crater near winslow arizona
asteroid materi left format solar system one
theori suggest remain planet destroy massiv collis
long ago like asteroid materi never coalesc planet
fact estim total mass asteroid gather singl object
object kilomet mile across less half diamet moon
thousand asteroid identifi earth estim bright
enough eventu photograph earth base telescop  much
understand asteroid come examin piec space debri
fall surfac earth asteroid collis cours earth call
meteoroid meteoroid strike atmospher high veloc
friction caus chunk space matter inciner streak
light known meteor meteoroid burn complet what
left strike earth surfac call meteorit one best
place look meteorit ice cap antarctica  meteorit
examin percent compos silic stone percent compos
iron nickel rest mixtur three materi stoni
meteorit hardest identifi sinc look much like
terrestri rock  sinc asteroid materi earli solar
system scientist interest composit spacecraft
flown asteroid belt found belt realli quit empti
asteroid separ larg distanc  current futur mission
fli select asteroid closer examin galileo orbit
launch nasa octob investig main belt asteroid way
jupit comet rendezv asteroid flybi craf cassini
mission also studi far flung object schedul launch
latter part 1990s craf cassini mission collabor
project nasa european space agenc feder space
agenc germani itali well unit state air forc
depart energi one day space factori mine asteroid
raw materi   jupit  beyond mar asteroid belt outer
region solar system lie giant planet jupit saturn
uranus neptun nasa dispatch first four spacecraft
slate conduct initi survey coloss world gas moon
ice rock jupit first port call  pioneer lift
kennedi space center march first spacecraft penetr
asteroid belt travel outer region solar system
decemb return first close imag jupit fli within
kilomet mile planet band cloud top pioneer follow
year later voyag launch summer return spectacular
photograph jupit famili satellit flybi  travel
found jupit whirl ball liquid hydrogen helium top
color atmospher compos most gaseous hydrogen
helium ammonia ice crystal form white jovian cloud
sulfur compound perhap phosphorus produc brown
orang hue character jupit atmospher  like methan
ammonia water gase react form organ molecul region
planet frigid cloud top warmer hydrogen ocean lie
jupit atmospher dynam howev organ compound exist
probabl short live  great red spot observ centuri
telescop earth hurrican like storm jupit atmospher
twice size planet high pressur region great red
spot spin direct opposit low pressur storm jupit
surround swirl current rotat around spot sometim
consum great red spot might million year old
spacecraft detect lightn jupit upper atmospher
observ auror emiss similar earth northern light
jovian polar region voyag return first imag faint
narrow ring encircl jupit  largest solar system
planet jupit rotat dizzi pace everi hour minut
second massiv planet take almost earth year
complet journey around sun known moon jupit someth
miniatur solar system  new mission jupit galileo
project way six year cruis take galileo orbit past
venus twice past earth moon past two asteroid
spacecraft drop atmospher probe jupit cloud layer
relay data back earth galileo orbit spend two year
circl planet fli close jupit larg moon explor
detail two pioneer two voyag reveal   galilean
satellit  galileo galilei aim telescop jupit spot
four point light orbit planet first time human
seen moon anoth world honor discover four bodi
becom known galilean satellit moon galileo might
happili trade honor one look dazzl photograph
return voyag spacecraft flew past planet size
satellit  one remark find voyag mission presenc
activ volcano galilean moon volcan erupt never
observ world earth voyag camera identifi least
nine activ volcano plume eject materi extend far
kilomet mile moon surfac  io pizza color terrain
mark orang yellow hue probabl result sulfur rich
materi brought surfac volcan activ volcan activ
satellit result tidal flex caus gravit tug war
jupit three galilean moon  europa approxim size
moon brightest galilean satellit moon surfac
display complex array streak indic crust fractur
caught gravit tug war like europa heat enough caus
interior ice melt appar produc liquid water ocean
ocean cover ice crust form water expos cold space
europa core made rock sank center  like europa two
galilean moon ganymed callisto world ice rock
ganymed largest satellit solar system larger
planet mercuri pluto satellit compos percent water
ice rest rock ganymed surfac area differ bright
indic past materi ooz moon interior deposit
various locat surfac  callisto slight smaller
ganymed lowest densiti galilean satellit suggest
larg amount water part composit callisto heavili
crater object solar system activ histori eras old
crater except impact  detail studi galilean
satellit perform galileo orbit   saturn  planet
solar system adorn like saturn exquisit ring
system unriv like jupit saturn compos most
hydrogen contrast vivid color wild turbul found
jovian cloud saturn atmospher subtl butterscotch
hue mark mute high altitud haze given saturn
somewhat placid look appear scientist surpris high
veloc equatori jet stream blow kilomet mile per
hour  three american spacecraft visit saturn
pioneer sped planet moon titan septemb return
first close imag voyag follow novemb send back
breathtak photograph reveal first time complex
saturn ring system moon voyag flew planet moon
august  ring compos countless low densiti particl
orbit individu around saturn equat progress
distanc cloud top analysi spacecraft radio wave
pass ring show particl vari wide size rang dust
hous size boulder ring bright most ice frost rock
ring might result moon pass bodi ventur close
saturn unlucki object torn apart great tidal forc
surfac interior object fulli form begin disintegr
influenc saturn graviti third possibl object
shatter collis larger object orbit planet  unabl
either form moon drift away individu ring particl
appear held place gravit pull saturn satellit
complex gravit interact form thousand ringlet make
major ring  radio emiss quit similar static heard
car radio electr storm detect voyag spacecraft
emiss typic lightn believ come saturn ring system
rather atmospher lightn observ jupit voyag saw
version earth aurora near saturn pole  voyag
discov new moon found sever satellit share orbit
learn moon shepherd ring particl maintain saturn
ring gap ring saturn 18th moon discov imag taken
voyag  voyag determin titan nitrogen base
atmospher methan argon one like earth composit
carbon dioxid atmospher mar venus titan surfac
temperatur degre celsius degre fahrenheit impli
might water ice island rise ocean ethan methan
liquid sludg unfortun voyag camera could penetr
moon dens cloud  continu photochemistri solar
radiat convert titan methan ethan acetylen combin
nitrogen hydrogen cyanid latter compound build
block amino acid condit similar atmospher condit
primev earth three four billion year ago howev
titan atmospher temperatur believ low permit
progress beyond stage organ chemistri  explor
saturn continu cassini mission cassini spacecraft
orbit planet also deploy probe call huygen drop
titan atmospher fall surfac cassini use probe well
radar peer titan cloud spend year examin saturnian
system   uranus  januari four half year visit
saturn voyag complet first close survey uranian
system brief flybi reveal inform uranus retinu ici
moon glean ground observ sinc planet discoveri two
centuri ago english astronom william herschel
uranus third largest planet oddbal solar system
unlik planet except pluto giant lie tip side north
south pole altern face sun year swing around solar
system voyag flybi south pole face sun uranus
might knock earth size object collid earli life
solar system  voyag found uranus magnet field
follow usual north south axi found planet instead
field tilt degre offset planet center phenomenon
earth like one magnet pole new york citi citi
djakarta island java indonesia  uranus atmospher
consist main hydrogen percent helium small amount
ammonia methan water vapor planet blue color occur
methan atmospher absorb color wind speed rang
kilomet mile per hour temperatur near cloud top
averag degre celsius degre fahrenheit  uranus
sunlit south pole shroud kind photochem smog
believ combin acetylen ethan sunlight generat
chemic surround planet atmospher extend thousand
kilomet space mysteri ultraviolet sheen known
electroglow  approxim kilomet mile uranus cloud
top thought scald ocean water dissolv ammonia
kilomet mile deep beneath ocean earth size core
heavier materi  voyag discov new moon kilomet mile
diamet orbit uranus five previous known miranda
ariel umbriel titania oberon rang size kilomet
mile across repres geolog showcas five moon half
ice half rock sphere cold dark show evid past
activ includ fault ice flow  remark uranus moon
miranda surfac featur high cliff well canyon
crater pock plain wind valley sharp variat terrain
suggest moon form smash apart collis anoth bodi
event unusu solar system contain mani object
impact crater fragment larg impact extraordinari
miranda appar reform materi interior expos surfac
uranus thought nine dark ring voyag imag contrast
saturn ring compos bright particl uranus ring
primarili made dark boulder size chunk   neptun
voyag complet year tour solar system investig
neptun planet moon august spacecraft swept within
kilomet mile neptun flew moon triton neptun
encount becam clear planet atmospher activ uranus
voyag observ great dark spot circular storm size
earth neptun atmospher resembl jupit great red
spot storm spin counterclockwis move westward
almost kilomet mile per hour voyag also note
smaller dark spot fast move cloud dub scooter well
high altitud cloud main hydrogen helium cloud deck
highest wind speed planet observ kilomet mile per
hour  like giant planet neptun gaseous hydrogen
helium upper layer liquid interior planet core
contain higher percentag rock metal gas giant
neptun distinct blue appear like uranus blue color
due atmospher methan  neptun magnet field tilt
relat planet spin axi center core phenomenon
similar uranus magnet field suggest field two
giant generat area core pressur great liquid
hydrogen assum electr properti metal earth magnet
field hand produc spin metal core slight tilt
offset relat center  voyag also shed light mysteri
neptun ring observ earth indic arc materi orbit
around giant planet clear neptun could arc could
kept spread even unclump ring voyag detect arc
fact part thin complet ring number small moon
could explain arc bodi spot  astronom identifi
neptunian moon triton nereid voyag found six one
new moon proteus actual larger nereid sinc proteus
orbit close neptun lost planet glare observ earth
triton circl neptun retrograd orbit six day tidal
forc triton caus spiral slowli toward planet
million year short time astronom term moon close
neptunian graviti tear apart form spectacular ring
accompani planet modest current ring  triton
landscap strang unexpect miranda moon rock
counterpart saturn uranus triton mantl probabl
compos water ice moon crust thin veneer nitrogen
methan moon show two dramat differ type terrain
call cantaloup terrain reced ice cap  dark streak
appear ice cap streak fallout geyser like volcan
vent shoot nitrogen gas dark fine grain particl
height kilomet mile triton thin atmospher 000th
thick earth wind carri dark particl deposit streak
ice cap coldest surfac yet found solar system
degre celsius degre fahrenheit triton might like
pluto object spacecraft far visit   pluto  pluto
distant planet yet eccentr orbit period carri
insid neptun orbit sinc remain march pluto orbit
also high inclin tilt degre orbit plane planet
discov pluto appear littl celesti snowbal planet
diamet calcul approxim kilomet mile two third size
moon ground base observ indic pluto surfac cover
methan ice thin atmospher freez fall surfac planet
move away sun observ also show pluto spin axi tip
degre  planet one known satellit charon discov
charon surfac composit differ pluto moon appear
cover water ice rather methan ice orbit gravit
lock pluto bodi alway keep hemispher face pluto
charon rotat period charon period revolut earth
day  although spacecraft ever visit pluto nasa
current explor possibl mission   comet  outermost
member solar system occasion pay visit inner
planet asteroid rocki metal remnant format solar
system comet ici debri dim begin surviv far sun
comet nuclei resid oort cloud loos swarm object
halo beyond planet reach perhap halfway nearest
star  comet nuclei orbit frozen abyss gravit
perturb new orbit carri close sun nucleus fall
insid orbit outer planet volatil element made
gradual warm time nucleus enter region inner
planet volatil element boil nucleus irregular mile
across made princip water ice methan ammonia
materi similar compos moon giant planet  materi
boil nucleus form coma cloud like head measur ten
thousand kilomet across coma grow comet get closer
sun stream charg particl come sun push cloud blow
back like flag wind give rise comet tail gase ion
blown direct back nucleus dust particl push slowli
nucleus continu orbit dust particl left behind
curv arc  gas dust tail point away sun effect
comet chase tail reced sun tail reach million
kilomet million mile length total amount materi
contain dramat display fit ordinari suitcas comet
latin cometa mean long hair essenti dramat light
show  comet pass solar system other orbit gravit
modifi close encount one giant outer planet latter
visitor enter close ellipt orbit repeat return
inner solar system  halley comet famous exampl
relat short period comet return averag everi year
orbit beyond neptun within venus orbit confirm
sight comet back regular visitor solar system name
sir edmond halley plot comet orbit predict return
base earlier sight newtonian law motion name becam
part astronom lore comet return schedul unfortun
sir edmond live see  comet promin sky pass compar
close earth unfortun recent appear halley comet
pass closer million kilomet million mile world
comet visibl nake eye especi viewer southern
hemispher spectacular comet bright rare occas
visibl daytim histor comet sight interpret bad
omen artist render dagger sky  comet rendezv
asteroid flybi craf spacecraft becom first travel
fli close comet nucleus remain proxim approach sun
craf observ nucleus becom activ grow sunlight
begin lighter element boil form coma tail sever
spacecraft flown comet high speed first nasa
intern cometari explor armada five spacecraft two
japanes two soviet giotto spacecraft european
space agenc flew halley comet   conclus  despit
effort peer across vast distanc space obscur
atmospher scientist past one bodi could studi
close earth sinc spaceflight solar system lift
veil neighbor space  learn solar system member
anyon previous thousand year autom spacecraft
travel moon planet beyond world except pluto
observ moon larg small planet flown comet sampl
solar environ astronomi book includ detail pictur
bodi smudg largest telescop generat lucki aliv see
strang beauti place object  knowledg gain journey
solar system redefin tradit earth scienc like
geolog meteorolog spawn entir new disciplin call
compar planetolog studi geolog planet moon
asteroid comet compar differ similar learn origin
histori bodi solar system whole  also gain insight
earth complex weather system see weather shape
world investig sun activ influenc throughout solar
system better understand climat condit process
earth  continu learn benefit autom spacecraft
explor neighborhood space one current mission map
venus other fli world reach sun jupit complex
trajectori adjust futur mission plan mar saturn
comet asteroid belt  also look forward time human
set foot alien world although astronaut back moon
sinc decemb plan formul return lunar landscap
human explor mar even establish martian outpost
one day take holiday mean spend week lunar base
martian coloni  end
========== END PREPROCESSED =====================


Feature vector (sorted, non-zero values only):
Term, Index, Value:
planet, 6664, 0.393145850653
spacecraft, 8166, 0.225491323212
earth, 2956, 0.208303853144
solar, 8107, 0.207588198399
moon, 5851, 0.202313041121
atmospher, 755, 0.17534648582
venus, 9463, 0.173515912869
surfac, 8587, 0.164224857148
kilomet, 5016, 0.158867789941
orbit, 6280, 0.147062539246
sun, 8539, 0.129942188154
asteroid, 716, 0.127128878539
jupit, 4932, 0.124358048487
voyag, 9588, 0.124130483369
comet, 1926, 0.123905358495
marin, 5511, 0.121083180855
mile, 5713, 0.118642098415
saturn, 7640, 0.105210106377
mercuri, 5640, 0.103822091989
cloud, 1835, 0.103490462372
uranus, 9348, 0.0943277502777
mar, 5500, 0.0943198472494
ice, 4475, 0.0927385472257
degre, 2491, 0.0889416575571
vike, 9517, 0.0881016198644
ring, 7406, 0.0869319883922
lander, 5105, 0.0856997166145
neptun, 6006, 0.0835574024254
martian, 5522, 0.0786422611063
water, 9657, 0.0722078991214
rock, 7445, 0.0703735144128
mission, 5772, 0.0696984666316
pioneer, 6635, 0.0672918525089
methan, 5664, 0.0657570660194
celsius, 1600, 0.0657570660194
crater, 2213, 0.0642747874609
observ, 6179, 0.0637847045867
year, 9943, 0.0635805866067
particl, 6441, 0.0628057290083
object, 6173, 0.0621117978891
fahrenheit, 3359, 0.0610378700154
close, 1830, 0.0610213034179
magnet, 5437, 0.0602800556967
pluto, 6701, 0.0595281260401
satellit, 7632, 0.0590429134417
space, 8164, 0.0587140592542
temperatur, 8773, 0.058712583801
nasa, 5956, 0.0577029662684
materi, 5543, 0.0574068430425
activ, 252, 0.0556665688828
explor, 3307, 0.0543878406701
size, 8000, 0.0533649945343
bodi, 1194, 0.0531356905415
million, 5724, 0.0531228921522
flybi, 3564, 0.0526050531885
form, 3610, 0.052232520423
core, 2140, 0.0519603116268
weather, 9679, 0.0515215021785
hydrogen, 4457, 0.0513568680377
percent, 6533, 0.0490514361616
wind, 9773, 0.0481385994142
compos, 1981, 0.0474407295104
triton, 9107, 0.0464547737965
galilean, 3754, 0.0464547737965
studi, 8469, 0.0461634628836
ocean, 6194, 0.0457300458293
region, 7228, 0.0451400399951
nucleus, 6152, 0.044391178193
helium, 4244, 0.044391178193
world, 9841, 0.0436483912262
storm, 8419, 0.0430505630067
interior, 4713, 0.0428498583073
larg, 5124, 0.0425860633291
return, 7346, 0.042568552675
autom, 802, 0.0423600208671
launch, 5147, 0.0421979957222
past, 6456, 0.0421382910417
dust, 2928, 0.0408864315416
instrument, 4686, 0.0402643642332
billion, 1092, 0.0401838416075
belt, 1017, 0.0401329932231
discov, 2698, 0.0399694704821
star, 8324, 0.0397801757105
nitrogen, 6078, 0.0396695158338
galileo, 3755, 0.0392414758155
high, 4292, 0.0388892301752
flew, 3539, 0.038267167117
field, 3466, 0.0375069280744
spot, 8261, 0.0374106677373
appear, 580, 0.0374050227532
like, 5272, 0.0371271827595
known, 5054, 0.0367666475904
gas, 3780, 0.0363745592655
dark, 2365, 0.0363482257059
small, 8054, 0.035838585646
outer, 6324, 0.0354658523912
gravit, 4009, 0.0351225727115
giant, 3865, 0.0348757016771
volcan, 9572, 0.0348410803474
day, 2402, 0.0340999240139
reveal, 7352, 0.0340160720229
red, 7194, 0.0337500036724
light, 5267, 0.0335625977046
travel, 9069, 0.032583304242
cassini, 1544, 0.0321373937304
impact, 4534, 0.031860936902
cover, 2194, 0.0317314691576
telescop, 8764, 0.0312147572971
landscap, 5109, 0.0312143536104
survey, 8597, 0.0306862810266
astronom, 728, 0.0305379889316
titan, 8951, 0.0299071756235
spin, 8235, 0.0299071756235
crust, 2260, 0.0298895754634
craf, 2206, 0.0298895754634
result, 7332, 0.0297502032755
journey, 4900, 0.0294908479149
fli, 3542, 0.0294705364673
lunar, 5392, 0.0294503934201
dens, 2530, 0.0292119882733
evid, 3245, 0.0290761626721
probe, 6886, 0.0287387833216
featur, 3422, 0.0287280260801
radiat, 7058, 0.0286233723233
meteorit, 5661, 0.0283353684527
pole, 6717, 0.0282400139114
life, 5260, 0.0282326354041
near, 5982, 0.0279309211544
tail, 8674, 0.0278215641677
half, 4124, 0.0277826147487
approxim, 593, 0.0277798508873
rang, 7094, 0.0277244812916
radio, 7061, 0.0273867978165
pass, 6448, 0.0273867978165
largest, 5126, 0.0272576210277
use, 9363, 0.0270901229387
thousand, 8888, 0.0264095572298
distanc, 2744, 0.0262604808497
examin, 3257, 0.026160983877
composit, 1982, 0.026160983877
photograph, 6604, 0.0260236669527
becam, 980, 0.0258903307949
sinc, 7977, 0.0257068405072
similar, 7961, 0.0253940141661
collis, 1903, 0.0253925726149
air, 357, 0.0252576212567
august, 784, 0.0249434575886
speed, 8217, 0.0249366818354
visit, 9544, 0.0248377109692
neighbor, 6000, 0.0248230921784
center, 1606, 0.0247557532633
color, 1907, 0.0246497039268
left, 5193, 0.024409161967
septemb, 7801, 0.0243433235611
hour, 4395, 0.0241586115819
period, 6546, 0.0239157464013
miranda, 5754, 0.0239116603707
lava, 5151, 0.0239116603707
ganymed, 3767, 0.0239116603707
europa, 3221, 0.0239116603707
shape, 7853, 0.0238113007606
jpl, 4912, 0.0238113007606
produc, 6895, 0.02377513387
metal, 5658, 0.0237203647552
human, 4432, 0.0236793107532
condit, 2017, 0.0236470056044
differ, 2633, 0.0236057595353
graviti, 4010, 0.0234110679728
streak, 8436, 0.0233550269082
liquid, 5294, 0.0233550269082
scientist, 7694, 0.0232602421538
generat, 3819, 0.0232468646119
halley, 4130, 0.0232273868983
biolog, 1107, 0.023021499585
flow, 3555, 0.0228650229147
land, 5104, 0.0228431852993
pressur, 6842, 0.0227681944343
carri, 1530, 0.0226898490225
dioxid, 2663, 0.0226682947622
continu, 2092, 0.0226521898884
complex, 1976, 0.0225089835854
mysteri, 5942, 0.0218008198975
point, 6710, 0.0216392846937
arc, 608, 0.0215752756625
remain, 7264, 0.02154601956
becom, 983, 0.0215075084095
meteor, 5660, 0.0214249291536
hue, 4424, 0.0214249291536
environ, 3139, 0.021395193741
electr, 3030, 0.0213622683025
rotat, 7490, 0.0213459978137
soil, 8104, 0.0211018393512
charon, 1672, 0.0211018393512
ago, 336, 0.0209058416269
sent, 7793, 0.0208809783865
complet, 1975, 0.0207456385486
imag, 4512, 0.0205583785168
fault, 3407, 0.0205277023726
far, 3386, 0.020486855446
american, 469, 0.0204586842838
great, 4016, 0.0203986088327
carbon, 1512, 0.0202972948989
contain, 2079, 0.0202227466522
bright, 1311, 0.0202080884808
astronaut, 727, 0.0202080884808
new, 6023, 0.0200984927073
time, 8936, 0.0200367966415
reach, 7128, 0.0199983228574
stream, 8438, 0.0196605652766
phenomenon, 6585, 0.0196605652766
molecul, 5823, 0.0196605652766
dramat, 2859, 0.0196605652766
larger, 5125, 0.0196391729124
learn, 5182, 0.019546661595
closer, 1831, 0.0195092233107
terrain, 8801, 0.0194746588489
island, 4781, 0.0194746588489
pictur, 6622, 0.0194161627615
tilt, 8934, 0.0192993816066
element, 3037, 0.0192024079154
control, 2107, 0.0191963364436
earli, 2951, 0.0190752827373
inner, 4656, 0.0189762918042
centuri, 1614, 0.0188639694499
cap, 1497, 0.0186840215265
war, 9635, 0.0186538814702
caus, 1569, 0.0186206141029
coma, 1918, 0.0185953817319
layer, 5160, 0.0185477094451
includ, 4579, 0.0184655434287
west, 9708, 0.0184547121979
radar, 7055, 0.018417199668
diamet, 2613, 0.018417199668
decemb, 2438, 0.018417199668
separ, 7797, 0.0182194760585
previous, 6855, 0.0179550163
geolog, 3842, 0.0179444940024
volcano, 9573, 0.017933745278
tidal, 8920, 0.017933745278
dispatch, 2730, 0.017933745278
callisto, 1465, 0.017933745278
design, 2564, 0.0178730635358
densiti, 2531, 0.017836885877
appar, 577, 0.0177883315114
craft, 2207, 0.0176323756496
fall, 3369, 0.017551154047
trajectori, 9044, 0.0175350177295
consist, 2061, 0.0174752476828
sight, 7943, 0.017440655918
east, 2965, 0.0174378508385
sulfur, 8531, 0.0174205401737
spectacular, 8207, 0.0174205401737
rendezv, 7279, 0.0174205401737
upper, 9340, 0.0173491113018
anoth, 533, 0.0172956556818
encount, 3088, 0.0171738340595
lift, 5264, 0.017089814642
power, 6783, 0.0170729174003
data, 2385, 0.0170344253317
begin, 994, 0.0170154260982
rise, 7414, 0.0170080360115
plain, 6659, 0.0170080360115
boil, 1202, 0.0170012210716
heat, 4226, 0.0169283817433
crew, 2227, 0.0168507442571
main, 5450, 0.016820478353
european, 3222, 0.0167011283939
indic, 4600, 0.0166958122065
melt, 5624, 0.0166466918224
identifi, 4486, 0.0166289717258
detect, 2579, 0.0165584739795
south, 8154, 0.0164895605871
march, 5504, 0.0164221618981
resembl, 7308, 0.0163562127562
circul, 1767, 0.0163395846177
compar, 1960, 0.016126896638
later, 5140, 0.0160743869658
cliff, 1817, 0.0160686968652
sampl, 7601, 0.0160461998047
agenc, 329, 0.015930468451
terrestri, 8802, 0.0158263795134
kilogram, 5015, 0.0158263795134
jovian, 4902, 0.0158263795134
place, 6657, 0.0157544787287
visibl, 9541, 0.0157113383299
planetari, 6665, 0.015658917961
emiss, 3070, 0.0156071768052
extend, 3319, 0.0155068281026
process, 6890, 0.0154946965592
laboratori, 5090, 0.0154577627853
ulyss, 9203, 0.0154070604113
kennedi, 4984, 0.0154070604113
lightn, 5270, 0.0152229711742
flood, 3548, 0.0150525311621
huge, 4427, 0.0150482865124
view, 9510, 0.0149716595426
wide, 9747, 0.0149231051761
energi, 3102, 0.0149231051761
flown, 3557, 0.014893855307
lie, 5258, 0.0148424027053
drop, 2878, 0.0148424027053
gradual, 3980, 0.0147454239574
direct, 2667, 0.0146889900296
relat, 7247, 0.0146528280054
suggest, 8525, 0.014617003949
charg, 1664, 0.0145755808468
scientif, 7693, 0.0145034241787
long, 5336, 0.0144932918616
novemb, 6129, 0.0144745362049
eye, 3337, 0.0143982761552
base, 923, 0.0143950722859
subsystem, 8505, 0.0143501876689
debri, 2427, 0.0143501876689
valley, 9413, 0.0142322188531
mean, 5595, 0.0142150811268
believ, 1009, 0.0142047095884
blue, 1176, 0.0141343269123
thruster, 8902, 0.0141200069557
quit, 7043, 0.0140388777727
way, 9666, 0.0140378586495
unit, 9278, 0.0139206522577
current, 2299, 0.0138885390478
measur, 5601, 0.0138334468483
understand, 9246, 0.0137438748555
weigh, 9694, 0.0137190137488
success, 8513, 0.0136123408786
transmit, 9059, 0.0135420119985
magellan, 5433, 0.0135420119985
god, 3926, 0.0135098219685
veloc, 9456, 0.0134583705018
remark, 7266, 0.0133776644077
second, 7753, 0.0133400126025
come, 1923, 0.0133385277369
flight, 3544, 0.0133322152383
summer, 8538, 0.0132996946467
sky, 8011, 0.0132600585702
axi, 840, 0.0132242817372
compound, 1983, 0.0130804919385
blow, 1172, 0.0130804919385
averag, 816, 0.0130532487425
camera, 1473, 0.0129451653975
surround, 8595, 0.0128803755446
organ, 6287, 0.0128387195478
oper, 6261, 0.0128387195478
target, 8704, 0.0127560270086
forc, 3594, 0.0126970070831
cool, 2124, 0.0126962863075
band, 891, 0.0126962863075
month, 5847, 0.0126382222113
apart, 559, 0.0126380581928
iron, 4767, 0.0125812679574
probabl, 6885, 0.0125361231605
plan, 6660, 0.012523928849
mark, 5512, 0.012486758492
ancient, 500, 0.0124717287943
area, 622, 0.0124683409177
venusian, 9464, 0.0123969211546
swirl, 8636, 0.0123969211546
nickel, 6053, 0.0123969211546
molten, 5826, 0.0123969211546
gaze, 3800, 0.0123969211546
dune, 2919, 0.0123969211546
constitu, 2069, 0.0123969211546
canal, 1484, 0.0123969211546
cold, 1888, 0.0123671704403
altitud, 452, 0.0123671704403
surviv, 8599, 0.0123166214236
format, 3612, 0.0122727286081
apollo, 570, 0.0122187390907
grow, 4066, 0.0121713170461
smaller, 8055, 0.01207930927
pound, 6776, 0.01207930927
deep, 2466, 0.0120346498536
investig, 4745, 0.0119908411446
renaiss, 7273, 0.0119558301853
planitia, 6668, 0.0119558301853
maxwel, 5563, 0.0119558301853
ici, 4476, 0.0119558301853
frost, 3700, 0.0119558301853
footstep, 3591, 0.0119558301853
countless, 2185, 0.0119558301853
1970s, 37, 0.0119558301853
circl, 1765, 0.0119478513382
clear, 1803, 0.0117657598273
extens, 3320, 0.0116675184485
warmer, 9640, 0.0116136934491
volatil, 9571, 0.0116136934491
veil, 9451, 0.0116136934491
swell, 8631, 0.0116136934491
photovolta, 6611, 0.0116136934491
nuclei, 6151, 0.0116136934491
hurrican, 4450, 0.0116136934491
gaseous, 3782, 0.0116136934491
descent, 2555, 0.0116136934491
equip, 3161, 0.011593322089
make, 5459, 0.0115368460481
share, 7855, 0.0115214447492
strike, 8448, 0.0114517458493
california, 1459, 0.0114517458493
slight, 8034, 0.0113840972172
seen, 7767, 0.0113819449335
provid, 6949, 0.011343532946
visitor, 9545, 0.0113341473811
highland, 4295, 0.0113341473811
fuse, 3733, 0.0113341473811
flex, 3540, 0.0113341473811
sever, 7823, 0.0113181896869
hundr, 4440, 0.0111923288821
enter, 3125, 0.0111618663483
combin, 1921, 0.0111618663483
exampl, 3258, 0.0111226482737
torn, 9002, 0.0110977945483
peer, 6505, 0.0110977945483
neighborhood, 6001, 0.0110977945483
deposit, 2541, 0.0110977945483
bombard, 1210, 0.0110977945483
chang, 1650, 0.0110178993717
maintain, 5454, 0.0110153271318
repres, 7294, 0.0109871072971
unfortun, 9264, 0.0109316856351
origin, 6293, 0.010905560183
penetr, 6519, 0.0108930564118
mont, 5843, 0.0108930564118
gase, 3781, 0.0108930564118
faint, 3362, 0.0108930564118
expedit, 3291, 0.0108930564118
chunk, 1744, 0.0108930564118
mass, 5533, 0.010877568134
state, 8342, 0.0108726455531
spend, 8222, 0.01077300978
insid, 4671, 0.01077300978
select, 7774, 0.0107475963979
shatter, 7861, 0.0107124645768
harbor, 4166, 0.0107124645768
glanc, 3891, 0.0107124645768
batteri, 950, 0.0107124645768
acid, 236, 0.0107124645768
theori, 8848, 0.0106245784304
end, 3091, 0.010571459536
hemispher, 4251, 0.0105509196756
orang, 6279, 0.0104047845368
glare, 3892, 0.0104047845368
climat, 1818, 0.0104047845368
citi, 1775, 0.0103750851362
ultraviolet, 9201, 0.0102713736075
sharp, 7858, 0.0102713736075
collid, 1901, 0.0102713736075
knowledg, 5053, 0.0102496056006
fine, 3485, 0.0102092556589
trap, 9067, 0.0101486474494
januari, 4824, 0.0101486474494
irregular, 4770, 0.0101486474494
freez, 3682, 0.0101486474494
follow, 3578, 0.0100790334364
revolut, 7365, 0.0100350207747
onboard, 6239, 0.0100350207747
eject, 3022, 0.0100350207747
determin, 2582, 0.0100174873239
physic, 6613, 0.00999916142869
histori, 4314, 0.00994504392762
dwarf, 2933, 0.00992923687134
decay, 2433, 0.00992923687134
cell, 1598, 0.00992923687134
alien, 413, 0.00992923687134
aeronaut, 301, 0.00992923687134
face, 3345, 0.00989217061791
white, 9737, 0.00985758518904
obscur, 6178, 0.00983028263828
heavier, 4231, 0.00983028263828
rest, 7324, 0.00982351215578
local, 5322, 0.00978993655686
natur, 5966, 0.00974047470045
northern, 6111, 0.00973732942445
record, 7184, 0.00972422100963
station, 8346, 0.00970808138074
futur, 3737, 0.00970808138074
tug, 9148, 0.00964969080328
sunlight, 8544, 0.00964969080328
river, 7422, 0.00964969080328
offset, 6209, 0.00964969080328
lowest, 5372, 0.00964969080328
backup, 858, 0.00964969080328
experi, 3295, 0.00962903966089
winter, 9790, 0.00956679177926
slowli, 8046, 0.00956679177926
polar, 6716, 0.00956679177926
nearest, 5984, 0.00956679177926
heavili, 4232, 0.00956679177926
look, 5341, 0.00956600333216
singl, 7983, 0.00953764136867
expos, 3311, 0.00948814590208
distant, 2745, 0.00948814590208
site, 7994, 0.00947866665844
low, 5368, 0.00947866665844
tip, 8945, 0.00941333797046
tour, 9019, 0.00927385472257
tear, 8735, 0.00927385472257
princip, 6869, 0.00927385472257
sea, 7739, 0.00920859983402
rapid, 7100, 0.00920859983402
permit, 6552, 0.00920859983402
patch, 6459, 0.00920859983402
octob, 6197, 0.00920859983402
massiv, 5536, 0.00920859983402
lock, 5324, 0.00920859983402
contrast, 2101, 0.00920859983402
total, 9013, 0.00917884911973
dozen, 2848, 0.00914600916587
chemistri, 1692, 0.00914600916587
boulder, 1248, 0.00914600916587
away, 833, 0.00911583455657
short, 7904, 0.00909110434325
southern, 8156, 0.00908587367591
oxygen, 6363, 0.00908587367591
sir, 7989, 0.00902800799902
ventur, 9461, 0.00897224700119
confirm, 2032, 0.00897224700119
discoveri, 2700, 0.00891844293848
perhap, 6540, 0.00890228963148
public, 6973, 0.00883529787548
vast, 9434, 0.00881618782481
soviet, 8161, 0.00881618782481
influenc, 4634, 0.00881618782481
honor, 4364, 0.00876750886475
rare, 7101, 0.008720327959
primarili, 6864, 0.008720327959
panel, 6406, 0.008720327959
aurora, 787, 0.008720327959
mani, 5479, 0.00869837914877
old, 6216, 0.00869651545449
conduct, 2021, 0.00867455565091
twice, 9170, 0.00863011026498
scienc, 7692, 0.00859518242683
brown, 1344, 0.00858691702975
develop, 2588, 0.00856563314224
mountain, 5887, 0.00854490732099
unknown, 9287, 0.00850401800573
pattern, 6468, 0.00850401800573
global, 3904, 0.00850401800573
began, 993, 0.00850401800573
alter, 449, 0.00850401800573
spread, 8265, 0.00846419087164
shoot, 7900, 0.00846419087164
progress, 6907, 0.00846419087164
florida, 3552, 0.00846419087164
major, 5458, 0.00844179975632
live, 5310, 0.00843254466263
roll, 7464, 0.00842537212855
touch, 9015, 0.00838751197157
beauti, 978, 0.00838751197157
arriv, 655, 0.00838751197157
percentag, 6534, 0.00835056419693
administr, 273, 0.00835056419693
employ, 3077, 0.00831448586288
led, 5188, 0.00827923698974
captur, 1509, 0.00827923698974
exist, 3283, 0.00824632491333
estim, 3201, 0.00824478029355
rich, 7382, 0.00821108094904
push, 6996, 0.00821108094904
despit, 2570, 0.00821108094904
primari, 6863, 0.0081781063781
motion, 5880, 0.0081781063781
highest, 4294, 0.0081781063781
devic, 2591, 0.0081781063781
affect, 310, 0.00814582606049
certain, 1619, 0.00813817283633
danger, 2356, 0.00808323539234
specul, 8214, 0.00805287284665
summari, 8536, 0.00802309990237
scan, 7660, 0.00802309990237
attitud, 769, 0.00802309990237
gain, 3746, 0.00799389409643
array, 653, 0.00793710025353
howev, 4406, 0.00792859465201
support, 8576, 0.00792118759994
trace, 9028, 0.00790947322766
strang, 8426, 0.00790947322766
compon, 1980, 0.00790947322766
path, 6461, 0.00788233520146
monitor, 5837, 0.00788233520146
disk, 2720, 0.00785566916494
rocki, 7450, 0.0078294589805
prevent, 6853, 0.00777834563235
plate, 6674, 0.00777834563235
construct, 2074, 0.00777834563235
littl, 5308, 0.0077297150894
best, 1052, 0.00768924681343
north, 6110, 0.00763449723289
altern, 450, 0.00763449723289
orient, 6290, 0.00761178187738
slow, 8044, 0.00758939814477
jet, 4860, 0.00758939814477
electron, 3034, 0.00756733649145
communic, 1950, 0.00756733649145
inform, 4637, 0.00755927507733
eventu, 3233, 0.00754558777995
brought, 1343, 0.00754558777995
possibl, 6765, 0.0075403976443
serv, 7810, 0.00748213354746
initi, 4647, 0.0074412442322
collect, 1898, 0.00740141709811
calcul, 1451, 0.00738188487916
occur, 6192, 0.00734355142122
analysi, 490, 0.00726964514118
burn, 1413, 0.00718200652001
program, 6905, 0.00713890315413
minut, 5747, 0.00708305228696
late, 5139, 0.00703587138121
contribut, 2103, 0.00699009907312
schedul, 7678, 0.00697514033542
machin, 5416, 0.00697514033542
fit, 3510, 0.00691672342414
ground, 4061, 0.00688832893761
map, 5498, 0.00687432648
member, 5625, 0.00679289539141
locat, 5323, 0.00679289539141
lost, 5355, 0.00677973429384
various, 9432, 0.00676668520697
took, 8987, 0.00676668520697
saw, 7650, 0.00675374624029
individu, 4604, 0.00670305539378
entir, 3129, 0.00666610761913
signific, 7951, 0.00660644022823
display, 2734, 0.00660644022823
law, 5153, 0.00658320859511
instead, 4682, 0.00658320859511
usual, 9377, 0.00647205425383
sens, 7788, 0.00638859101325
basic, 937, 0.00630943751863
test, 8812, 0.00629982458148
perform, 6539, 0.00622501664986
night, 6063, 0.00622501664986
lead, 5172, 0.00622501664986
andrea, 504, 0.00619846057731
present, 6837, 0.00613636430407
nation, 5962, 0.00603633372246
info, 4636, 0.00603633372246
final, 3482, 0.00602027851343
ball, 877, 0.00599650658837
weaken, 9669, 0.00597791509267
vent, 9460, 0.00597791509267
turbul, 9152, 0.00597791509267
surveyor, 8598, 0.00597791509267
subtl, 8507, 0.00597791509267
spawn, 8190, 0.00597791509267
smog, 8066, 0.00597791509267
java, 4829, 0.00597791509267
huygen, 4454, 0.00597791509267
hardest, 4171, 0.00597791509267
greenhous, 4028, 0.00597791509267
giotto, 3880, 0.00597791509267
etch, 3204, 0.00597791509267
earthquak, 2957, 0.00597791509267
dub, 2903, 0.00597791509267
drama, 2858, 0.00597791509267
dormant, 2824, 0.00597791509267
disintegr, 2718, 0.00597791509267
dialup, 2612, 0.00597791509267
delawar, 2499, 0.00597791509267
colder, 1889, 0.00597791509267
chiefli, 1704, 0.00597791509267
beneath, 1025, 0.00597791509267
ariel, 635, 0.00597791509267
altimet, 451, 0.00597791509267
000th, 0, 0.00597791509267
version, 9479, 0.0059653733674
expect, 3290, 0.00594243141639
creat, 2217, 0.00592732529959
allow, 432, 0.00587559601182
untold, 9322, 0.00580684672457
supplement, 8573, 0.00580684672457
slate, 8018, 0.00580684672457
saturnian, 7642, 0.00580684672457
sank, 7612, 0.00580684672457
rippl, 7410, 0.00580684672457
reachabl, 7129, 0.00580684672457
plateau, 6675, 0.00580684672457
panic, 6407, 0.00580684672457
overlap, 6344, 0.00580684672457
neon, 6004, 0.00580684672457
midsumm, 5703, 0.00580684672457
meteorolog, 5662, 0.00580684672457
extraordinari, 3329, 0.00580684672457
erupt, 3181, 0.00580684672457
eros, 3175, 0.00580684672457
dissolv, 2742, 0.00580684672457
discover, 2699, 0.00580684672457
deimo, 2493, 0.00580684672457
catastroph, 1555, 0.00580684672457
17th, 32, 0.00580684672457
advanc, 285, 0.00579767696966
requir, 7302, 0.00570391143344
project, 6909, 0.00569097246676
terra, 8799, 0.00566707369054
smash, 8058, 0.00566707369054
shroud, 7922, 0.00566707369054
salmon, 7593, 0.00566707369054
reconnaiss, 7182, 0.00566707369054
plung, 6698, 0.00566707369054
miniatur, 5738, 0.00566707369054
inciner, 4577, 0.00566707369054
halo, 4133, 0.00566707369054
glow, 3913, 0.00566707369054
flourish, 3554, 0.00566707369054
everest, 3234, 0.00566707369054
dusti, 2929, 0.00566707369054
dim, 2649, 0.00566707369054
counterpart, 2183, 0.00566707369054
counterclockwis, 2182, 0.00566707369054
condens, 2016, 0.00566707369054
canaver, 1485, 0.00566707369054
calm, 1466, 0.00566707369054
brightest, 1314, 0.00566707369054
auror, 786, 0.00566707369054
week, 9691, 0.00564652708083
vantag, 9424, 0.00554889727413
sped, 8215, 0.00554889727413
showcas, 7916, 0.00554889727413
shorelin, 7903, 0.00554889727413
shepherd, 7877, 0.00554889727413
romant, 7470, 0.00554889727413
pubinfo, 6972, 0.00554889727413
midst, 5702, 0.00554889727413
invad, 4737, 0.00554889727413
happili, 4163, 0.00554889727413
grip, 4052, 0.00554889727413
frozen, 3702, 0.00554889727413
extraterrestri, 3331, 0.00554889727413
erod, 3174, 0.00554889727413
cometari, 1927, 0.00554889727413
bleak, 1151, 0.00554889727413
1990s, 40, 0.00554889727413
given, 3887, 0.00550323921944
kind, 5021, 0.00546941597026
wander, 9630, 0.00544652820591
slope, 8041, 0.00544652820591
shower, 7917, 0.00544652820591
revisit, 7361, 0.00544652820591
redefin, 7197, 0.00544652820591
react, 7131, 0.00544652820591
promin, 6912, 0.00544652820591
phobo, 6599, 0.00544652820591
newli, 6030, 0.00544652820591
holiday, 4345, 0.00544652820591
gentl, 3831, 0.00544652820591
forecast, 3597, 0.00544652820591
factori, 3353, 0.00544652820591
exhaust, 3281, 0.00544652820591
eras, 3166, 0.00544652820591
ellipt, 3050, 0.00544652820591
dizzi, 2772, 0.00544652820591
deplet, 2539, 0.00544652820591
daytim, 2404, 0.00544652820591
18th, 34, 0.00544652820591
consid, 2059, 0.00537744698141
vapor, 9425, 0.00535623228841
tale, 8682, 0.00535623228841
swallow, 8619, 0.00535623228841
photographi, 6605, 0.00535623228841
leak, 5178, 0.00535623228841
halfway, 4126, 0.00535623228841
equatori, 3158, 0.00535623228841
drift, 2870, 0.00535623228841
degener, 2489, 0.00535623228841
thought, 8887, 0.00535141480341
file, 3477, 0.00530564249532
swept, 8632, 0.0052754598378
startl, 8336, 0.0052754598378
shed, 7866, 0.0052754598378
predomin, 6818, 0.0052754598378
glean, 3897, 0.0052754598378
fact, 3350, 0.00526119710939
everi, 3235, 0.00525149290957
vivid, 9551, 0.0052023922684
unexpect, 9260, 0.0052023922684
static, 8345, 0.0052023922684
rusti, 7552, 0.0052023922684
rocketri, 7449, 0.0052023922684
modest, 5812, 0.0052023922684
mixtur, 5789, 0.0052023922684
italian, 4796, 0.0052023922684
ion, 4752, 0.0052023922684
formul, 3613, 0.0052023922684
eccentr, 2971, 0.0052023922684
destin, 2572, 0.0052023922684
chase, 1676, 0.0052023922684
cape, 1501, 0.0052023922684
canyon, 1496, 0.0052023922684
backward, 859, 0.0052023922684
agricultur, 340, 0.0052023922684
trillion, 9101, 0.00513568680377
ordinari, 6282, 0.00513568680377
nake, 5950, 0.00513568680377
latin, 5143, 0.00513568680377
itali, 4795, 0.00513568680377
illus, 4510, 0.00513568680377
fade, 3356, 0.00513568680377
ensur, 3123, 0.00513568680377
line, 5285, 0.00508222862918
violent, 9528, 0.00507432372472
rhode, 7376, 0.00507432372472
proport, 6932, 0.00507432372472
perturb, 6569, 0.00507432372472
illumin, 4509, 0.00507432372472
grain, 3987, 0.00507432372472
envelop, 3137, 0.00507432372472
elev, 3040, 0.00507432372472
disciplin, 2690, 0.00507432372472
artifact, 666, 0.00507432372472
absorb, 195, 0.00507432372472
messeng, 5651, 0.00501751038736
mantl, 5491, 0.00501751038736
fuzzi, 3738, 0.00501751038736
fusion, 3735, 0.00501751038736
fragment, 3642, 0.00501751038736
dawn, 2400, 0.00501751038736
abyss, 203, 0.00501751038736
number, 6156, 0.0049857126555
reform, 7218, 0.00496461843567
pace, 6370, 0.00496461843567
loos, 5345, 0.00496461843567
gap, 3769, 0.00496461843567
empti, 3079, 0.00496461843567
divers, 2762, 0.00496461843567
celesti, 1597, 0.00496461843567
20th, 63, 0.00496461843567
know, 5052, 0.00495391851535
yellow, 9947, 0.00491514131914
sunset, 8548, 0.00491514131914
pizza, 6655, 0.00491514131914
modem, 5809, 0.00491514131914
lighter, 5269, 0.00491514131914
geograph, 3841, 0.00491514131914
deck, 2446, 0.00491514131914
companion, 1959, 0.00491514131914
collabor, 1894, 0.00491514131914
artifici, 667, 0.00491514131914
accompani, 215, 0.00491514131914
occas, 6186, 0.00486866471222
lifetim, 5263, 0.00486866471222
leap, 5180, 0.00486866471222
everywher, 3244, 0.00486866471222
distort, 2748, 0.00486866471222
crack, 2203, 0.00486866471222
celebr, 1596, 0.00486866471222
start, 8334, 0.00485331881316
tower, 9023, 0.00482484540164
laid, 5095, 0.00482484540164
insight, 4672, 0.00482484540164
horizon, 4374, 0.00482484540164
coloni, 1906, 0.00482484540164
ceas, 1589, 0.00482484540164
boundari, 1251, 0.00482484540164
distinguish, 2747, 0.00478339588963
wherea, 9723, 0.00474407295104
tremend, 9082, 0.00474407295104
sand, 7605, 0.00474407295104
relay, 7252, 0.00474407295104
narrow, 5955, 0.00474407295104
flag, 3515, 0.00474407295104
dri, 2869, 0.00474407295104
unusu, 9325, 0.00470666898523
simplifi, 7969, 0.00470666898523
possess, 6764, 0.00470666898523
myth, 5944, 0.00470666898523
collaps, 1896, 0.00470666898523
preserv, 6838, 0.00467100538163
oort, 6255, 0.00467100538163
historian, 4315, 0.00467100538163
exceed, 3260, 0.00467100538163
deiti, 2495, 0.00467100538163
broken, 1332, 0.00467100538163
sudden, 8518, 0.00463692736128
spaceflight, 8168, 0.00463692736128
quantum, 7025, 0.00463692736128
plant, 6670, 0.00463692736128
navig, 5969, 0.00463692736128
ident, 4484, 0.00463692736128
fortun, 3619, 0.00463692736128
crystal, 2267, 0.00463692736128
cruis, 2255, 0.00463692736128
circular, 1768, 0.00463692736128
blown, 1174, 0.00463692736128
beta, 1055, 0.00463692736128
variat, 9430, 0.00460429991701
inclin, 4578, 0.00460429991701
harm, 4177, 0.00460429991701
hair, 4119, 0.00460429991701
closest, 1832, 0.00460429991701
character, 1662, 0.00460429991701
better, 1060, 0.00458688560349
shield, 7882, 0.00457300458293
health, 4221, 0.00457300458293
domin, 2808, 0.00457300458293
distinct, 2746, 0.00457300458293
cosmic, 2164, 0.00457300458293
arizona, 639, 0.00457300458293
veget, 9448, 0.00454293683795
occasion, 6187, 0.00454293683795
enabl, 3083, 0.00454293683795
artist, 669, 0.00454293683795
aim, 353, 0.00454293683795
warm, 9639, 0.00451400399951
ride, 7393, 0.00451400399951
liter, 5304, 0.00451400399951
joint, 4882, 0.00451400399951
height, 4238, 0.00451400399951
help, 4249, 0.00450448173802
ultim, 9198, 0.0044861235006
shift, 7883, 0.0044861235006
seven, 7820, 0.0044861235006
presenc, 6836, 0.0044861235006
introduct, 4733, 0.0044861235006
hint, 4306, 0.0044861235006
classic, 1790, 0.0044861235006
alpha, 441, 0.0044861235006
lucki, 5382, 0.00445922146924
fulfil, 3717, 0.00445922146924
daili, 2338, 0.00445922146924
tune, 9149, 0.00443323154891
germani, 3855, 0.00443323154891
characterist, 1663, 0.00443323154891
shut, 7925, 0.0044080939124
primit, 6866, 0.0044080939124
japanes, 4826, 0.0044080939124
gather, 3792, 0.0044080939124
zone, 9991, 0.00438375443238
uniqu, 9276, 0.00438375443238
resid, 7311, 0.00438375443238
descend, 2554, 0.00438375443238
van, 9416, 0.0043601639795
unabl, 9211, 0.0043601639795
stone, 8409, 0.0043601639795
prime, 6865, 0.0043601639795
gold, 3933, 0.0043601639795
conveni, 2112, 0.0043601639795
consum, 2077, 0.0043601639795
antenna, 538, 0.0043601639795
optic, 6273, 0.00433727782546
fiction, 3463, 0.00433727782546
deploy, 2540, 0.00433727782546
channel, 1652, 0.00433727782546
mount, 5886, 0.00431505513249
minim, 5739, 0.00431505513249
famous, 3380, 0.00431505513249
car, 1510, 0.00431505513249
candid, 1489, 0.00431505513249
bound, 1250, 0.00431505513249
wave, 9661, 0.00429345851488
link, 5289, 0.00429345851488
destroy, 2574, 0.00429345851488
wing, 9779, 0.00427245366049
prior, 6874, 0.00427245366049
intens, 4701, 0.00427245366049
fundament, 3724, 0.00427245366049
foot, 3587, 0.00427245366049
chemic, 1690, 0.00427245366049
twin, 9172, 0.00425200900286
rose, 7481, 0.00425200900286
raw, 7114, 0.00425200900286
fifth, 3471, 0.00425200900286
roman, 7468, 0.00423209543582
green, 4025, 0.00423209543582
brief, 1308, 0.00423209543582
paramet, 6421, 0.00421268606427
explan, 3302, 0.00421268606427
weak, 9668, 0.00419375598579
vari, 9426, 0.00419375598579
suffici, 8523, 0.00419375598579
properti, 6925, 0.00419375598579
nuclear, 6150, 0.00419375598579
notion, 6122, 0.00419375598579
golden, 3934, 0.00419375598579
expand, 3288, 0.00419375598579
wild, 9758, 0.00417528209846
sphere, 8226, 0.00417528209846
prepar, 6831, 0.00415724293144
depth, 2545, 0.00415724293144
ranger, 7095, 0.00413961849487
caught, 1568, 0.00413961849487
anywher, 557, 0.00413961849487
role, 7463, 0.00412239014677
port, 6748, 0.00412239014677
photo, 6603, 0.00412239014677
feder, 3425, 0.00412239014677
bar, 904, 0.00412239014677
swing, 8635, 0.00410554047452
pasadena, 6446, 0.00410554047452
heavi, 4230, 0.00410554047452
english, 3111, 0.00410554047452
curv, 2306, 0.00410554047452
conclud, 2008, 0.00410554047452
atom, 756, 0.00410554047452
shown, 7918, 0.00408905318905
morn, 5864, 0.00408905318905
famili, 3378, 0.00408905318905
fulli, 3718, 0.00407291303024
women, 9819, 0.00405710568205
knock, 5050, 0.00405710568205
block, 1163, 0.00405710568205
plot, 6694, 0.00404161769617
establish, 3198, 0.00404161769617
warn, 9643, 0.00402643642332
opposit, 6270, 0.00402643642332
margin, 5507, 0.00402643642332
equat, 3157, 0.00402643642332
king, 5024, 0.00401154995119
histor, 4313, 0.00401154995119
somewhat, 8129, 0.00399694704821
impli, 4546, 0.00399694704821
dynam, 2942, 0.00399694704821
contract, 2095, 0.00399694704821
broadcast, 1324, 0.00399694704821
multipl, 5919, 0.00396855012676
intellig, 4698, 0.00396855012676
adjust, 269, 0.00396855012676
heaven, 4229, 0.00395473661383
tradit, 9037, 0.00394116760073
piec, 6624, 0.00394116760073
interact, 4704, 0.00394116760073
aliv, 417, 0.00394116760073
techniqu, 8740, 0.00392783458247
imposs, 4553, 0.00392783458247
held, 4243, 0.00392783458247
visual, 9547, 0.00391472949025
constant, 2067, 0.00391472949025
typic, 9178, 0.00390184466214
essenti, 3196, 0.00390184466214
straight, 8422, 0.00388917281617
stage, 8302, 0.00388917281617
sit, 7993, 0.00388917281617
cross, 2241, 0.00388917281617
achiev, 232, 0.00388917281617
volum, 9577, 0.00387670702564
proper, 6924, 0.00387670702564
nobodi, 6088, 0.00387670702564
kept, 4989, 0.00387670702564
hot, 4389, 0.00387670702564
render, 7277, 0.00386444069633
pull, 6979, 0.00386444069633
gov, 3965, 0.00386444069633
father, 3404, 0.00386444069633
bear, 971, 0.00386444069633
william, 9764, 0.00385236754561
gotten, 3962, 0.00385236754561
middl, 5699, 0.00384048158308
independ, 4595, 0.00384048158308
allen, 426, 0.00384048158308
repeat, 7286, 0.00382877709274
benefit, 1028, 0.00382877709274
spring, 8266, 0.00381724861645
conclus, 2009, 0.00381724861645
unlik, 9290, 0.00380589093869
anonym, 532, 0.00380589093869
viewer, 9512, 0.00379469907239
obtain, 6183, 0.00379469907239
length, 5212, 0.00379469907239
trade, 9033, 0.00378366824573
fix, 3511, 0.00377279388998
faster, 3399, 0.00376207162811
solid, 8115, 0.00375149726424
protect, 6940, 0.00374106677373
resolut, 7316, 0.00373077629404
fuel, 3715, 0.00373077629404
earlier, 2952, 0.00373077629404
propuls, 6936, 0.0037206221161
plane, 6663, 0.0037206221161
hous, 4396, 0.0037206221161
popular, 6746, 0.00369094243958
astronomi, 729, 0.00369094243958
internet, 4717, 0.00368129917751
print, 6871, 0.00367177571061
modifi, 5814, 0.00367177571061
soon, 8136, 0.00365307650977
approach, 589, 0.00365307650977
resourc, 7320, 0.0036438952117
fail, 3360, 0.0036438952117
besid, 1051, 0.0036438952117
york, 9960, 0.00362585604467
interpret, 4720, 0.00361699318034
gave, 3798, 0.0036082316081
depart, 2535, 0.0035995690388
function, 3722, 0.00359100326001
somewher, 8130, 0.00358253213264
effort, 3007, 0.00358253213264
regular, 7234, 0.00355766630228
network, 6018, 0.003549553748
lack, 5092, 0.003549553748
minor, 5745, 0.00352571879528
higher, 4293, 0.0035179356906
break, 1284, 0.0035102308094
imagin, 4518, 0.00348016306442
forward, 3621, 0.00348016306442
event, 3232, 0.00348016306442
addit, 263, 0.00348016306442
taken, 8678, 0.00347282684359
respect, 7321, 0.00347282684359
predict, 6816, 0.00347282684359
pay, 6474, 0.00347282684359
contact, 2078, 0.00347282684359
san, 7603, 0.00346556016145
increas, 4590, 0.00345836171207
surpris, 8593, 0.00345123022598
text, 8822, 0.0034302253716
age, 328, 0.0034302253716
act, 249, 0.00342334972706
special, 8198, 0.00341653520018
leav, 5184, 0.00341653520018
intern, 4716, 0.00340978071397
strong, 8456, 0.00339644769571
offic, 6206, 0.00339644769571
fast, 3397, 0.00338334260349
sometim, 8128, 0.00337045777537
date, 2391, 0.00337045777537
copi, 2130, 0.00337045777537
attempt, 763, 0.00337045777537
receiv, 7167, 0.00335152769689
hold, 4341, 0.00335152769689
common, 1948, 0.00334532013887
definit, 2484, 0.00331501464254
add, 260, 0.00329160429755
access, 209, 0.00327450405193
stop, 8413, 0.00324140700321
head, 4215, 0.00323602712691
involv, 4750, 0.00321487739315
product, 6896, 0.00320967988696
particular, 6442, 0.00320967988696
govern, 3966, 0.00319938940727
april, 595, 0.00318420813443
watch, 9655, 0.00317921378956
especi, 3190, 0.00317425177077
term, 8795, 0.00314991229074
level, 5229, 0.00314513576921
seri, 7805, 0.00312632183787
ftp, 3709, 0.00309893931183
explain, 3301, 0.00309893931183
build, 1378, 0.00309446915791
save, 7646, 0.00308560629357
convert, 2115, 0.00308121299086
effect, 3005, 0.00307250120135
alreadi, 443, 0.00307250120135
technolog, 8743, 0.00304694452728
recent, 7168, 0.00304694452728
specif, 8203, 0.00304276670099
love, 5366, 0.00304276670099
exact, 3253, 0.00304276670099
type, 9177, 0.00299433190852
matter, 5553, 0.00297502032755
assum, 710, 0.00297502032755
home, 4354, 0.00295618328094
season, 7747, 0.00295247078349
research, 7307, 0.00294877617766
discuss, 2708, 0.00294877617766
send, 7785, 0.00294509929183
today, 8964, 0.00293056560108
heard, 4224, 0.00291277758204
alway, 457, 0.00289539295442
sourc, 8153, 0.00282954742171
answer, 535, 0.00282954742171
refer, 7213, 0.00282639904264
bad, 861, 0.00282326354041
wrong, 9869, 0.00281393325211
hand, 4145, 0.00278066206842
note, 6118, 0.0027660033192
set, 7815, 0.00274594084875
book, 1218, 0.00274594084875
hope, 4372, 0.00274030384374
hit, 4316, 0.00268088734862
avail, 811, 0.00266290861986
comput, 1993, 0.00265784834257
els, 3053, 0.00265032000816
mail, 5447, 0.00263548155991
cours, 2190, 0.00262333187255
bit, 1122, 0.00258569834267
play, 6681, 0.00252822948648
tell, 8767, 0.00250515545614
reason, 7156, 0.00247278635364
sure, 8585, 0.00246883464785
actual, 254, 0.0024649032073
question, 7032, 0.00232056882996
realli, 7150, 0.00227485694053
someth, 8126, 0.00225671102294
peopl, 6530, 0.00207998484888
anyon, 554, 0.00206007128184
good, 3948, 0.00197067523945
