Filename: /home/dev/scikit_learn_data/20news_home/20news-bydate-train/sci.space/59905
Truth category: 2 (sci.space)
Assigned cluster: 0 (space orbit like use launch know moon think time shuttl)

Raw data:
============ START RAW ==========================
From: leech@cs.unc.edu (Jon Leech)
Subject: Space FAQ 10/15 - Planetary Probe History
Supersedes: <probe_730956556@cs.unc.edu>
Organization: University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Lines: 527
Distribution: world
Expires: 6 May 1993 19:59:36 GMT
NNTP-Posting-Host: mahler.cs.unc.edu
Keywords: Frequently Asked Questions

Archive-name: space/probe
Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:19 $

PLANETARY PROBES - HISTORICAL MISSIONS

    This section was lightly adapted from an original posting by Larry Klaes
    (klaes@verga.enet.dec.com), mostly minor formatting changes. Matthew
    Wiener (weemba@libra.wistar.upenn.edu) contributed the section on
    Voyager, and the section on Sakigake was obtained from ISAS material
    posted by Yoshiro Yamada (yamada@yscvax.ysc.go.jp).

US PLANETARY MISSIONS


    MARINER (VENUS, MARS, & MERCURY FLYBYS AND ORBITERS)

    MARINER 1, the first U.S. attempt to send a spacecraft to Venus, failed
    minutes after launch in 1962. The guidance instructions from the ground
    stopped reaching the rocket due to a problem with its antenna, so the
    onboard computer took control. However, there turned out to be a bug in
    the guidance software, and the rocket promptly went off course, so the
    Range Safety Officer destroyed it. Although the bug is sometimes claimed
    to have been an incorrect FORTRAN DO statement, it was actually a
    transcription error in which the bar (indicating smoothing) was omitted
    from the expression "R-dot-bar sub n" (nth smoothed value of derivative
    of radius). This error led the software to treat normal minor variations
    of velocity as if they were serious, leading to incorrect compensation.

    MARINER 2 became the first successful probe to flyby Venus in December
    of 1962, and it returned information which confirmed that Venus is a
    very hot (800 degrees Fahrenheit, now revised to 900 degrees F.) world
    with a cloud-covered atmosphere composed primarily of carbon dioxide
    (sulfuric acid was later confirmed in 1978).

    MARINER 3, launched on November 5, 1964, was lost when its protective
    shroud failed to eject as the craft was placed into interplanetary
    space. Unable to collect the Sun's energy for power from its solar
    panels, the probe soon died when its batteries ran out and is now in
    solar orbit. It was intended for a Mars flyby with MARINER 4.

    MARINER 4, the sister probe to MARINER 3, did reach Mars in 1965 and
    took the first close-up images of the Martian surface (22 in all) as it
    flew by the planet. The probe found a cratered world with an atmosphere
    much thinner than previously thought. Many scientists concluded from
    this preliminary scan that Mars was a "dead" world in both the
    geological and biological sense.

    MARINER 5 was sent to Venus in 1967. It reconfirmed the data on that
    planet collected five years earlier by MARINER 2, plus the information
    that Venus' atmospheric pressure at its surface is at least 90 times
    that of Earth's, or the equivalent of being 3,300 feet under the surface
    of an ocean.

    MARINER 6 and 7 were sent to Mars in 1969 and expanded upon the work
    done by MARINER 4 four years earlier. However, they failed to take away
    the concept of Mars as a "dead" planet, first made from the basic
    measurements of MARINER 4.

    MARINER 8 ended up in the Atlantic Ocean in 1971 when the rocket
    launcher autopilot failed.

    MARINER 9, the sister probe to MARINER 8, became the first craft to
    orbit Mars in 1971. It returned information on the Red Planet that no
    other probe had done before, revealing huge volcanoes on the Martian
    surface, as well as giant canyon systems, and evidence that water once
    flowed across the planet. The probe also took the first detailed closeup
    images of Mars' two small moons, Phobos and Deimos.

    MARINER 10 used Venus as a gravity assist to Mercury in 1974. The probe
    did return the first close-up images of the Venusian atmosphere in
    ultraviolet, revealing previously unseen details in the cloud cover,
    plus the fact that the entire cloud system circles the planet in four
    Earth days. MARINER 10 eventually made three flybys of Mercury from 1974
    to 1975 before running out of attitude control gas. The probe revealed
    Mercury as a heavily cratered world with a mass much greater than
    thought. This would seem to indicate that Mercury has an iron core which
    makes up 75 percent of the entire planet.


    PIONEER (MOON, SUN, VENUS, JUPITER, and SATURN FLYBYS AND ORBITERS)

    PIONEER 1 through 3 failed to meet their main objective - to photograph
    the Moon close-up - but they did reach far enough into space to provide
    new information on the area between Earth and the Moon, including new
    data on the Van Allen radiation belts circling Earth. All three craft
    had failures with their rocket launchers. PIONEER 1 was launched on
    October 11, 1958, PIONEER 2 on November 8, and PIONEER 3 on December 6.

    PIONEER 4 was a Moon probe which missed the Moon and became the first
    U.S. spacecraft to orbit the Sun in 1959. PIONEER 5 was originally
    designed to flyby Venus, but the mission was scaled down and it instead
    studied the interplanetary environment between Venus and Earth out to
    36.2 million kilometers in 1960, a record until MARINER 2. PIONEER 6
    through 9 were placed into solar orbit from 1965 to 1968: PIONEER 6, 7,
    and 8 are still transmitting information at this time. PIONEER E (would
    have been number 10) suffered a launch failure in 1969.

    PIONEER 10 became the first spacecraft to flyby Jupiter in 1973. PIONEER
    11 followed it in 1974, and then went on to become the first probe to
    study Saturn in 1979. Both vehicles should continue to function through
    1995 and are heading off into interstellar space, the first craft ever
    to do so.

    PIONEER Venus 1 (1978) (also known as PIONEER Venus Orbiter, or PIONEER
    12) burned up in the Venusian atmosphere on October 8, 1992. PVO made
    the first radar studies of the planet's surface via probe. PIONEER Venus
    2 (also known as PIONEER 13) sent four small probes into the atmosphere
    in December of 1978. The main spacecraft bus burned up high in the
    atmosphere, while the four probes descended by parachute towards the
    surface. Though none were expected to survive to the surface, the Day
    probe did make it and transmitted for 67.5 minutes on the ground before
    its batteries failed.


    RANGER (LUNAR LANDER AND IMPACT MISSIONS)

    RANGER 1 and 2 were test probes for the RANGER lunar impact series. They
    were meant for high Earth orbit testing in 1961, but rocket problems
    left them in useless low orbits which quickly decayed.

    RANGER 3, launched on January 26, 1962, was intended to land an
    instrument capsule on the surface of the Moon, but problems during the
    launch caused the probe to miss the Moon and head into solar orbit.
    RANGER 3 did try to take some images of the Moon as it flew by, but the
    camera was unfortunately aimed at deep space during the attempt.

    RANGER 4, launched April 23, 1962, had the same purpose as RANGER 3, but
    suffered technical problems enroute and crashed on the lunar farside,
    the first U.S. probe to reach the Moon, albeit without returning data.

    RANGER 5, launched October 18, 1962 and similar to RANGER 3 and 4, lost
    all solar panel and battery power enroute and eventually missed the Moon
    and drifted off into solar orbit.

    RANGER 6 through 9 had more modified lunar missions: They were to send
    back live images of the lunar surface as they headed towards an impact
    with the Moon. RANGER 6 failed this objective in 1964 when its cameras
    did not operate. RANGER 7 through 9 performed well, becoming the first
    U.S. lunar probes to return thousands of lunar images through 1965.


    LUNAR ORBITER (LUNAR SURFACE PHOTOGRAPHY)

    LUNAR ORBITER 1 through 5 were designed to orbit the Moon and image
    various sites being studied as landing areas for the manned APOLLO
    missions of 1969-1972. The probes also contributed greatly to our
    understanding of lunar surface features, particularly the lunar farside.
    All five probes of the series, launched from 1966 to 1967, were
    essentially successful in their missions. They were the first U.S.
    probes to orbit the Moon. All LOs were eventually crashed into the lunar
    surface to avoid interference with the manned APOLLO missions.


    SURVEYOR (LUNAR SOFT LANDERS)

    The SURVEYOR series were designed primarily to see if an APOLLO lunar
    module could land on the surface of the Moon without sinking into the
    soil (before this time, it was feared by some that the Moon was covered
    in great layers of dust, which would not support a heavy landing
    vehicle). SURVEYOR was successful in proving that the lunar surface was
    strong enough to hold up a spacecraft from 1966 to 1968.

    Only SURVEYOR 2 and 4 were unsuccessful missions. The rest became the
    first U.S. probes to soft land on the Moon, taking thousands of images
    and scooping the soil for analysis. APOLLO 12 landed 600 feet from
    SURVEYOR 3 in 1969 and returned parts of the craft to Earth. SURVEYOR 7,
    the last of the series, was a purely scientific mission which explored
    the Tycho crater region in 1968.


    VIKING (MARS ORBITERS AND LANDERS)

    VIKING 1 was launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida on August 20, 1975 on
    a TITAN 3E-CENTAUR D1 rocket. The probe went into Martian orbit on June
    19, 1976, and the lander set down on the western slopes of Chryse
    Planitia on July 20, 1976. It soon began its programmed search for
    Martian micro-organisms (there is still debate as to whether the probes
    found life there or not), and sent back incredible color panoramas of
    its surroundings. One thing scientists learned was that Mars' sky was
    pinkish in color, not dark blue as they originally thought (the sky is
    pink due to sunlight reflecting off the reddish dust particles in the
    thin atmosphere). The lander set down among a field of red sand and
    boulders stretching out as far as its cameras could image.

    The VIKING 1 orbiter kept functioning until August 7, 1980, when it ran
    out of attitude-control propellant. The lander was switched into a
    weather-reporting mode, where it had been hoped it would keep
    functioning through 1994; but after November 13, 1982, an errant command
    had been sent to the lander accidentally telling it to shut down until
    further orders. Communication was never regained again, despite the
    engineers' efforts through May of 1983.

    An interesting side note: VIKING 1's lander has been designated the
    Thomas A. Mutch Memorial Station in honor of the late leader of the
    lander imaging team. The National Air and Space Museum in Washington,
    D.C. is entrusted with the safekeeping of the Mutch Station Plaque until
    it can be attached to the lander by a manned expedition.

    VIKING 2 was launched on September 9, 1975, and arrived in Martian orbit
    on August 7, 1976. The lander touched down on September 3, 1976 in
    Utopia Planitia. It accomplished essentially the same tasks as its
    sister lander, with the exception that its seisometer worked, recording
    one marsquake. The orbiter had a series of attitude-control gas leaks in
    1978, which prompted it being shut down that July. The lander was shut
    down on April 12, 1980.

    The orbits of both VIKING orbiters should decay around 2025.


    VOYAGER (OUTER PLANET FLYBYS)

    VOYAGER 1 was launched September 5, 1977, and flew past Jupiter on March
    5, 1979 and by Saturn on November 13, 1980. VOYAGER 2 was launched
    August 20, 1977 (before VOYAGER 1), and flew by Jupiter on August 7,
    1979, by Saturn on August 26, 1981, by Uranus on January 24, 1986, and
    by Neptune on August 8, 1989. VOYAGER 2 took advantage of a rare
    once-every-189-years alignment to slingshot its way from outer planet to
    outer planet. VOYAGER 1 could, in principle, have headed towards Pluto,
    but JPL opted for the sure thing of a Titan close up.

    Between the two probes, our knowledge of the 4 giant planets, their
    satellites, and their rings has become immense. VOYAGER 1&2 discovered
    that Jupiter has complicated atmospheric dynamics, lightning and
    aurorae. Three new satellites were discovered. Two of the major
    surprises were that Jupiter has rings and that Io has active sulfurous
    volcanoes, with major effects on the Jovian magnetosphere.

    When the two probes reached Saturn, they discovered over 1000 ringlets
    and 7 satellites, including the predicted shepherd satellites that keep
    the rings stable. The weather was tame compared with Jupiter: massive
    jet streams with minimal variance (a 33-year great white spot/band cycle
    is known). Titan's atmosphere was smoggy. Mimas' appearance was
    startling: one massive impact crater gave it the Death Star appearance.
    The big surprise here was the stranger aspects of the rings. Braids,
    kinks, and spokes were both unexpected and difficult to explain.

    VOYAGER 2, thanks to heroic engineering and programming efforts,
    continued the mission to Uranus and Neptune. Uranus itself was highly
    monochromatic in appearance. One oddity was that its magnetic axis was
    found to be highly skewed from the already completely skewed rotational
    axis, giving Uranus a peculiar magnetosphere. Icy channels were found on
    Ariel, and Miranda was a bizarre patchwork of different terrains. 10
    satellites and one more ring were discovered.

    In contrast to Uranus, Neptune was found to have rather active weather,
    including numerous cloud features. The ring arcs turned out to be bright
    patches on one ring. Two other rings, and 6 other satellites, were
    discovered. Neptune's magnetic axis was also skewed. Triton had a
    canteloupe appearance and geysers. (What's liquid at 38K?)

    The two VOYAGERs are expected to last for about two more decades. Their
    on-target journeying gives negative evidence about possible planets
    beyond Pluto. Their next major scientific discovery should be the
    location of the heliopause.


SOVIET PLANETARY MISSIONS

    Since there have been so many Soviet probes to the Moon, Venus, and
    Mars, I will highlight only the primary missions:


    SOVIET LUNAR PROBES

    LUNA 1 - Lunar impact attempt in 1959, missed Moon and became first
	     craft in solar orbit.
    LUNA 2 - First craft to impact on lunar surface in 1959.
    LUNA 3 - Took first images of lunar farside in 1959.
    ZOND 3 - Took first images of lunar farside in 1965 since LUNA 3. Was
	     also a test for future Mars missions.
    LUNA 9 - First probe to soft land on the Moon in 1966, returned images
	     from surface.
    LUNA 10 - First probe to orbit the Moon in 1966.
    LUNA 13 - Second successful Soviet lunar soft landing mission in 1966.
    ZOND 5 - First successful circumlunar craft. ZOND 6 through 8
	     accomplished similar missions through 1970. The probes were
	     unmanned tests of a manned orbiting SOYUZ-type lunar vehicle.
    LUNA 16 - First probe to land on Moon and return samples of lunar soil
	      to Earth in 1970. LUNA 20 accomplished similar mission in
	      1972.
    LUNA 17 - Delivered the first unmanned lunar rover to the Moon's
	      surface, LUNOKHOD 1, in 1970. A similar feat was accomplished
	      with LUNA 21/LUNOKHOD 2 in 1973.
    LUNA 24 - Last Soviet lunar mission to date. Returned soil samples in
	      1976.


    SOVIET VENUS PROBES

    VENERA 1 - First acknowledged attempt at Venus mission. Transmissions
	       lost enroute in 1961.
    VENERA 2 - Attempt to image Venus during flyby mission in tandem with
	       VENERA 3. Probe ceased transmitting just before encounter in
	       February of 1966. No images were returned.
    VENERA 3 - Attempt to place a lander capsule on Venusian surface.
	       Transmissions ceased just before encounter and entire probe
	       became the first craft to impact on another planet in 1966.
    VENERA 4 - First probe to successfully return data while descending
	       through Venusian atmosphere. Crushed by air pressure before
	       reaching surface in 1967. VENERA 5 and 6 mission profiles
	       similar in 1969.
    VENERA 7 - First probe to return data from the surface of another planet
	       in 1970. VENERA 8 accomplished a more detailed mission in
	       1972.
    VENERA 9 - Sent first image of Venusian surface in 1975. Was also the
	       first probe to orbit Venus. VENERA 10 accomplished similar
	       mission.
    VENERA 13 - Returned first color images of Venusian surface in 1982.
		VENERA 14 accomplished similar mission.
    VENERA 15 - Accomplished radar mapping with VENERA 16 of sections of
		planet's surface in 1983 more detailed than PVO.
    VEGA 1 - Accomplished with VEGA 2 first balloon probes of Venusian
	     atmosphere in 1985, including two landers. Flyby buses went on
	     to become first spacecraft to study Comet Halley close-up in
	     March of 1986.


    SOVIET MARS PROBES

    MARS 1 - First acknowledged Mars probe in 1962. Transmissions ceased
	     enroute the following year.
    ZOND 2 - First possible attempt to place a lander capsule on Martian
	     surface. Probe signals ceased enroute in 1965.
    MARS 2 - First Soviet Mars probe to land - albeit crash - on Martian
	     surface. Orbiter section first Soviet probe to circle the Red
	     Planet in 1971.
    MARS 3 - First successful soft landing on Martian surface, but lander
	     signals ceased after 90 seconds in 1971.
    MARS 4 - Attempt at orbiting Mars in 1974, braking rockets failed to
	     fire, probe went on into solar orbit.
    MARS 5 - First fully successful Soviet Mars mission, orbiting Mars in
	     1974. Returned images of Martian surface comparable to U.S.
	     probe MARINER 9.
    MARS 6 - Landing attempt in 1974. Lander crashed into the surface.
    MARS 7 - Lander missed Mars completely in 1974, went into a solar orbit
	     with its flyby bus.
    PHOBOS 1 - First attempt to land probes on surface of Mars' largest
	       moon, Phobos. Probe failed enroute in 1988 due to
	       human/computer error.
    PHOBOS 2 - Attempt to land probes on Martian moon Phobos. The probe did
	       enter Mars orbit in early 1989, but signals ceased one week
	       before scheduled Phobos landing.

    While there has been talk of Soviet Jupiter, Saturn, and even
    interstellar probes within the next thirty years, no major steps have
    yet been taken with these projects. More intensive studies of the Moon,
    Mars, Venus, and various comets have been planned for the 1990s, and a
    Mercury mission to orbit and land probes on the tiny world has been
    planned for 2003. How the many changes in the former Soviet Union (now
    the Commonwealth of Independent States) will affect the future of their
    space program remains to be seen.


JAPANESE PLANETARY MISSIONS

    SAKIGAKE (MS-T5) was launched from the Kagoshima Space Center by ISAS on
    January 8 1985, and approached Halley's Comet within about 7 million km
    on March 11, 1986. The spacecraft is carrying three instru- ments to
    measure interplanetary magnetic field/plasma waves/solar wind, all of
    which work normally now, so ISAS made an Earth swingby by Sakigake on
    January 8, 1992 into an orbit similar to the earth's. The closest
    approach was at 23h08m47s (JST=UTC+9h) on January 8, 1992. The
    geocentric distance was 88,997 km. This is the first planet-swingby for
    a Japanese spacecraft.

    During the approach, Sakigake observed the geotail. Some geotail
    passages will be scheduled in some years hence. The second Earth-swingby
    will be on June 14, 1993 (at 40 Re (Earth's radius)), and the third
    October 28, 1994 (at 86 Re).


    HITEN, a small lunar probe, was launched into Earth orbit on January 24,
    1990. The spacecraft was then known as MUSES-A, but was renamed to Hiten
    once in orbit. The 430 lb probe looped out from Earth and made its first
    lunary flyby on March 19, where it dropped off its 26 lb midget
    satellite, HAGOROMO. Japan at this point became the third nation to
    orbit a satellite around the Moon, joining the Unites States and USSR.

    The smaller spacecraft, Hagoromo, remained in orbit around the Moon. An
    apparently broken transistor radio caused the Japanese space scientists
    to lose track of it. Hagoromo's rocket motor fired on schedule on March
    19, but the spacecraft's tracking transmitter failed immediately. The
    rocket firing of Hagoromo was optically confirmed using the Schmidt
    camera (105-cm, F3.1) at the Kiso Observatory in Japan.

    Hiten made multiple lunar flybys at approximately monthly intervals and
    performed aerobraking experiments using the Earth's atmosphere. Hiten
    made a close approach to the moon at 22:33 JST (UTC+9h) on February 15,
    1992 at the height of 423 km from the moon's surface (35.3N, 9.7E) and
    fired its propulsion system for about ten minutes to put the craft into
    lunar orbit. The following is the orbital calculation results after the
    approach:

	Apoapsis Altitude: about 49,400 km
	Periapsis Altitude: about 9,600 km
	Inclination	: 34.7 deg (to ecliptic plane)
	Period		: 4.7 days


PLANETARY MISSION REFERENCES

    I also recommend reading the following works, categorized in three
    groups: General overviews, specific books on particular space missions,
    and periodical sources on space probes. This list is by no means
    complete; it is primarily designed to give you places to start your
    research through generally available works on the subject. If anyone can
    add pertinent works to the list, it would be greatly appreciated.

    Though naturally I recommend all the books listed below, I think it
    would be best if you started out with the general overview books, in
    order to give you a clear idea of the history of space exploration in
    this area. I also recommend that you pick up some good, up-to-date
    general works on astronomy and the Sol system, to give you some extra
    background. Most of these books and periodicals can be found in any good
    public and university library. Some of the more recently published works
    can also be purchased in and/or ordered through any good mass- market
    bookstore.

    General Overviews (in alphabetical order by author):

      J. Kelly Beatty et al, THE NEW SOLAR SYSTEM, 1990.

      Merton E. Davies and Bruce C. Murray, THE VIEW FROM SPACE:
       PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPLORATION OF THE PLANETS, 1971

      Kenneth Gatland, THE ILLUSTRATED ENCYCLOPEDIA OF SPACE
       TECHNOLOGY, 1990

      Kenneth Gatland, ROBOT EXPLORERS, 1972

      R. Greeley, PLANETARY LANDSCAPES, 1987

      Douglas Hart, THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF SOVIET SPACECRAFT, 1987

      Nicholas L. Johnson, HANDBOOK OF SOVIET LUNAR AND PLANETARY
       EXPLORATION, 1979

      Clayton R. Koppes, JPL AND THE AMERICAN SPACE PROGRAM: A
       HISTORY OF THE JET PROPULSION LABORATORY, 1982

      Richard S. Lewis, THE ILLUSTRATED ENCYCLOPEDIA OF THE
       UNIVERSE, 1983

      Mark Littman, PLANETS BEYOND: DISCOVERING THE OUTER SOLAR
       SYSTEM, 1988

      Eugene F. Mallove and Gregory L. Matloff, THE STARFLIGHT
       HANDBOOK: A PIONEER'S GUIDE TO INTERSTELLAR TRAVEL, 1989

      Frank Miles and Nicholas Booth, RACE TO MARS: THE MARS
       FLIGHT ATLAS, 1988

      Bruce Murray, JOURNEY INTO SPACE, 1989

      Oran W. Nicks, FAR TRAVELERS, 1985 (NASA SP-480)

      James E. Oberg, UNCOVERING SOVIET DISASTERS: EXPLORING THE
       LIMITS OF GLASNOST, 1988

      Carl Sagan, COMET, 1986

      Carl Sagan, THE COSMIC CONNECTION, 1973

      Carl Sagan, PLANETS, 1969 (LIFE Science Library)

      Arthur Smith, PLANETARY EXPLORATION: THIRTY YEARS OF UNMANNED
       SPACE PROBES, 1988

      Andrew Wilson, (JANE'S) SOLAR SYSTEM LOG, 1987

    Specific Mission References:

      Charles A. Cross and Patrick Moore, THE ATLAS OF MERCURY, 1977
       (The MARINER 10 mission to Venus and Mercury, 1973-1975)

      Joel Davis, FLYBY: THE INTERPLANETARY ODYSSEY OF VOYAGER 2, 1987

      Irl Newlan, FIRST TO VENUS: THE STORY OF MARINER 2, 1963

      Margaret Poynter and Arthur L. Lane, VOYAGER: THE STORY OF A
       SPACE MISSION, 1984

      Carl Sagan, MURMURS OF EARTH, 1978 (Deals with the Earth
       information records placed on VOYAGER 1 and 2 in case the
       probes are found by intelligences in interstellar space,
       as well as the probes and planetary mission objectives
       themselves.)

    Other works and periodicals:

    NASA has published very detailed and technical books on every space
    probe mission it has launched. Good university libraries will carry
    these books, and they are easily found simply by knowing which mission
    you wish to read about. I recommend these works after you first study
    some of the books listed above.

    Some periodicals I recommend for reading on space probes are NATIONAL
    GEOGRAPHIC, which has written articles on the PIONEER probes to Earth's
    Moon Luna and the Jovian planets Jupiter and Saturn, the RANGER,
    SURVEYOR, LUNAR ORBITER, and APOLLO missions to Luna, the MARINER
    missions to Mercury, Venus, and Mars, the VIKING probes to Mars, and the
    VOYAGER missions to Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune.

    More details on American, Soviet, European, and Japanese probe missions
    can be found in SKY AND TELESCOPE, ASTRONOMY, SCIENCE, NATURE, and
    SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN magazines. TIME, NEWSWEEK, and various major
    newspapers can supply not only general information on certain missions,
    but also show you what else was going on with Earth at the time events
    were unfolding, if that is of interest to you. Space missions are
    affected by numerous political, economic, and climatic factors, as you
    probably know.

    Depending on just how far your interest in space probes will go, you
    might also wish to join The Planetary Society, one of the largest space
    groups in the world dedicated to planetary exploration. Their
    periodical, THE PLANETARY REPORT, details the latest space probe
    missions. Write to The Planetary Society, 65 North Catalina Avenue,
    Pasadena, California 91106 USA.

    Good luck with your studies in this area of space exploration. I
    personally find planetary missions to be one of the more exciting areas
    in this field, and the benefits human society has and will receive from
    it are incredible, with many yet to be realized.

    Larry Klaes  klaes@verga.enet.dec.com

NEXT: FAQ #11/15 - Upcoming planetary probes - missions and schedules

========== END RAW ============================

Preprocessed:
============ START PREPROCESSED =================
 space faq planetari probe histori     expir gmt
archiv name space probe last modifi date
planetari probe histor mission  section light
adapt origin post larri klae   voyag section
sakigak obtain isa materi   planetari mission
marin venus mar mercuri flybi orbit  marin first
attempt send spacecraft venus fail minut launch
guidanc instruct ground stop reach rocket due
problem antenna onboard comput took control howev
turn bug guidanc softwar rocket prompt went cours
rang safeti offic destroy although bug sometim
claim incorrect fortran statement actual
transcript error bar indic smooth omit express dot
bar sub nth smooth valu deriv radius error led
softwar treat normal minor variat veloc serious
lead incorrect compens  marin becam first success
probe flybi venus decemb return inform confirm
venus hot degre fahrenheit revis degre world cloud
cover atmospher compos primarili carbon dioxid
sulfur acid later confirm  marin launch novemb
lost protect shroud fail eject craft place
interplanetari space unabl collect sun energi
power solar panel probe soon die batteri ran solar
orbit intend mar flybi marin  marin sister probe
marin reach mar took first close imag martian
surfac flew planet probe found crater world
atmospher much thinner previous thought mani
scientist conclud preliminari scan mar dead world
geolog biolog sens  marin sent venus reconfirm
data planet collect five year earlier marin plus
inform venus atmospher pressur surfac least time
earth equival feet surfac ocean  marin sent mar
expand upon work done marin four year earlier
howev fail take away concept mar dead planet first
made basic measur marin  marin end atlant ocean
rocket launcher autopilot fail  marin sister probe
marin becam first craft orbit mar return inform
red planet probe done reveal huge volcano martian
surfac well giant canyon system evid water flow
across planet probe also took first detail closeup
imag mar two small moon phobo deimo  marin use
venus graviti assist mercuri probe return first
close imag venusian atmospher ultraviolet reveal
previous unseen detail cloud cover plus fact entir
cloud system circl planet four earth day marin
eventu made three flybi mercuri run attitud
control gas probe reveal mercuri heavili crater
world mass much greater thought seem indic mercuri
iron core make percent entir planet   pioneer moon
sun venus jupit saturn flybi orbit  pioneer fail
meet main object photograph moon close reach far
enough space provid new inform area earth moon
includ new data van allen radiat belt circl earth
three craft failur rocket launcher pioneer launch
octob pioneer novemb pioneer decemb  pioneer moon
probe miss moon becam first spacecraft orbit sun
pioneer origin design flybi venus mission scale
instead studi interplanetari environ venus earth
million kilomet record marin pioneer place solar
orbit pioneer still transmit inform time pioneer
number suffer launch failur  pioneer becam first
spacecraft flybi jupit pioneer follow went becom
first probe studi saturn vehicl continu function
head interstellar space first craft ever   pioneer
venus also known pioneer venus orbit pioneer burn
venusian atmospher octob pvo made first radar
studi planet surfac via probe pioneer venus also
known pioneer sent four small probe atmospher
decemb main spacecraft bus burn high atmospher
four probe descend parachut toward surfac though
none expect surviv surfac day probe make transmit
minut ground batteri fail   ranger lunar lander
impact mission  ranger test probe ranger lunar
impact seri meant high earth orbit test rocket
problem left useless low orbit quick decay  ranger
launch januari intend land instrument capsul
surfac moon problem launch caus probe miss moon
head solar orbit ranger tri take imag moon flew
camera unfortun aim deep space attempt  ranger
launch april purpos ranger suffer technic problem
enrout crash lunar farsid first probe reach moon
albeit without return data  ranger launch octob
similar ranger lost solar panel batteri power
enrout eventu miss moon drift solar orbit  ranger
modifi lunar mission send back live imag lunar
surfac head toward impact moon ranger fail object
camera oper ranger perform well becom first lunar
probe return thousand lunar imag   lunar orbit
lunar surfac photographi  lunar orbit design orbit
moon imag various site studi land area man apollo
mission probe also contribut great understand
lunar surfac featur particular lunar farsid five
probe seri launch essenti success mission first
probe orbit moon los eventu crash lunar surfac
avoid interfer man apollo mission   surveyor lunar
soft lander  surveyor seri design primarili see
apollo lunar modul could land surfac moon without
sink soil time fear moon cover great layer dust
support heavi land vehicl surveyor success prove
lunar surfac strong enough hold spacecraft
surveyor unsuccess mission rest becam first probe
soft land moon take thousand imag scoop soil
analysi apollo land feet surveyor return part
craft earth surveyor last seri pure scientif
mission explor tycho crater region   vike mar
orbit lander  vike launch cape canaver florida
august titan centaur rocket probe went martian
orbit lander set western slope chryse planitia
soon began program search martian micro organ
still debat whether probe found life sent back
incred color panorama surround one thing scientist
learn mar sky pinkish color dark blue origin
thought sky pink due sunlight reflect reddish dust
particl thin atmospher lander set among field red
sand boulder stretch far camera could imag  vike
orbit kept function august ran attitud control
propel lander switch weather report mode hope keep
function novemb errant command sent lander
accident tell shut order communic never regain
despit engin effort  interest side note vike
lander design thoma mutch memori station honor
late leader lander imag team nation air space
museum washington entrust safekeep mutch station
plaqu attach lander man expedit  vike launch
septemb arriv martian orbit august lander touch
septemb utopia planitia accomplish essenti task
sister lander except seisomet work record one
marsquak orbit seri attitud control gas leak
prompt shut lander shut april  orbit vike orbit
decay around   voyag outer planet flybi  voyag
launch septemb flew past jupit march saturn novemb
voyag launch august voyag flew jupit august saturn
august uranus januari neptun august voyag took
advantag rare everi year align slingshot way outer
planet outer planet voyag could principl head
toward pluto jpl opt sure thing titan close  two
probe knowledg giant planet satellit ring becom
immens voyag discov jupit complic atmospher dynam
lightn aurora three new satellit discov two major
surpris jupit ring activ sulfur volcano major
effect jovian magnetospher  two probe reach saturn
discov ringlet satellit includ predict shepherd
satellit keep ring stabl weather tame compar jupit
massiv jet stream minim varianc year great white
spot band cycl known titan atmospher smoggi mima
appear startl one massiv impact crater gave death
star appear big surpris stranger aspect ring braid
kink spoke unexpect difficult explain  voyag thank
heroic engin program effort continu mission uranus
neptun uranus high monochromat appear one odditi
magnet axi found high skew alreadi complet skew
rotat axi give uranus peculiar magnetospher ici
channel found ariel miranda bizarr patchwork
differ terrain satellit one ring discov  contrast
uranus neptun found rather activ weather includ
numer cloud featur ring arc turn bright patch one
ring two ring satellit discov neptun magnet axi
also skew triton canteloup appear geyser what
liquid 38k  two voyag expect last two decad target
journey give negat evid possibl planet beyond
pluto next major scientif discoveri locat
heliopaus   soviet planetari mission  sinc mani
soviet probe moon venus mar highlight primari
mission   soviet lunar probe  luna lunar impact
attempt miss moon becam first craft solar orbit
luna first craft impact lunar surfac luna took
first imag lunar farsid zond took first imag lunar
farsid sinc luna also test futur mar mission luna
first probe soft land moon return imag surfac luna
first probe orbit moon luna second success soviet
lunar soft land mission zond first success
circumlunar craft zond accomplish similar mission
probe unman test man orbit soyuz type lunar vehicl
luna first probe land moon return sampl lunar soil
earth luna accomplish similar mission  luna deliv
first unman lunar rover moon surfac lunokhod
similar feat accomplish luna lunokhod luna last
soviet lunar mission date return soil sampl
soviet venus probe  venera first acknowledg
attempt venus mission transmiss lost enrout venera
attempt imag venus flybi mission tandem venera
probe ceas transmit encount februari imag return
venera attempt place lander capsul venusian surfac
transmiss ceas encount entir probe becam first
craft impact anoth planet venera first probe
success return data descend venusian atmospher
crush air pressur reach surfac venera mission
profil similar venera first probe return data
surfac anoth planet venera accomplish detail
mission  venera sent first imag venusian surfac
also first probe orbit venus venera accomplish
similar mission venera return first color imag
venusian surfac venera accomplish similar mission
venera accomplish radar map venera section planet
surfac detail pvo vega accomplish vega first
balloon probe venusian atmospher includ two lander
flybi buse went becom first spacecraft studi comet
halley close march   soviet mar probe  mar first
acknowledg mar probe transmiss ceas enrout follow
year zond first possibl attempt place lander
capsul martian surfac probe signal ceas enrout mar
first soviet mar probe land albeit crash martian
surfac orbit section first soviet probe circl red
planet mar first success soft land martian surfac
lander signal ceas second mar attempt orbit mar
brake rocket fail fire probe went solar orbit mar
first fulli success soviet mar mission orbit mar
return imag martian surfac compar probe marin mar
land attempt lander crash surfac mar lander miss
mar complet went solar orbit flybi bus phobo first
attempt land probe surfac mar largest moon phobo
probe fail enrout due human comput error phobo
attempt land probe martian moon phobo probe enter
mar orbit earli signal ceas one week schedul phobo
land  talk soviet jupit saturn even interstellar
probe within next thirti year major step yet taken
project intens studi moon mar venus various comet
plan 1990s mercuri mission orbit land probe tini
world plan mani chang former soviet union
commonwealth independ state affect futur space
program remain seen   japanes planetari mission
sakigak launch kagoshima space center isa januari
approach halley comet within million march
spacecraft carri three instru ment measur
interplanetari magnet field plasma wave solar wind
work normal isa made earth swingbi sakigak januari
orbit similar earth closest approach 23h08m47s jst
utc januari geocentr distanc first planet swingbi
japanes spacecraft  approach sakigak observ
geotail geotail passag schedul year henc second
earth swingbi earth radius third octob   hiten
small lunar probe launch earth orbit januari
spacecraft known muse renam hiten orbit probe loop
earth made first lunari flybi march drop midget
satellit hagoromo japan point becam third nation
orbit satellit around moon join unit state ussr
smaller spacecraft hagoromo remain orbit around
moon appar broken transistor radio caus japanes
space scientist lose track hagoromo rocket motor
fire schedul march spacecraft track transmitt fail
immedi rocket fire hagoromo optic confirm use
schmidt camera kiso observatori japan  hiten made
multipl lunar flybi approxim month interv perform
aerobrak experi use earth atmospher hiten made
close approach moon jst utc februari height moon
surfac fire propuls system ten minut put craft
lunar orbit follow orbit calcul result approach
apoapsi altitud periapsi altitud inclin deg eclipt
plane period day   planetari mission refer  also
recommend read follow work categor three group
general overview specif book particular space
mission period sourc space probe list mean complet
primarili design give place start research general
avail work anyon add pertin work list great
appreci  though natur recommend book list think
best start general overview book order give clear
idea histori space explor area also recommend pick
good date general work astronomi sol system give
extra background book period found good public
univers librari recent publish work also purchas
order good mass market bookstor  general overview
alphabet order author  kelli beatti new solar
system  merton davi bruce murray view space
photograph explor planet  kenneth gatland illustr
encyclopedia space technolog  kenneth gatland
robot explor  greeley planetari landscap  dougla
hart encyclopedia soviet spacecraft  nichola
johnson handbook soviet lunar planetari explor
clayton kopp jpl american space program histori
jet propuls laboratori  richard lewi illustr
encyclopedia univers  mark littman planet beyond
discov outer solar system  eugen mallov gregori
matloff starflight handbook pioneer guid
interstellar travel  frank mile nichola booth race
mar mar flight atlas  bruce murray journey space
oran nick far travel nasa  jame oberg uncov soviet
disast explor limit glasnost  carl sagan comet
carl sagan cosmic connect  carl sagan planet life
scienc librari  arthur smith planetari explor
thirti year unman space probe  andrew wilson jane
solar system log  specif mission refer  charl
cross patrick moor atlas mercuri marin mission
venus mercuri  joel davi flybi interplanetari
odyssey voyag  irl newlan first venus stori marin
margaret poynter arthur lane voyag stori space
mission  carl sagan murmur earth deal earth inform
record place voyag case probe found intellig
interstellar space well probe planetari mission
object   work period  nasa publish detail technic
book everi space probe mission launch good univers
librari carri book easili found simpli know
mission wish read recommend work first studi book
list  period recommend read space probe nation
geograph written articl pioneer probe earth moon
luna jovian planet jupit saturn ranger surveyor
lunar orbit apollo mission luna marin mission
mercuri venus mar vike probe mar voyag mission
jupit saturn uranus neptun  detail american soviet
european japanes probe mission found sky telescop
astronomi scienc natur scientif american magazin
time newsweek various major newspap suppli general
inform certain mission also show els go earth time
event unfold interest space mission affect numer
polit econom climat factor probabl know  depend
far interest space probe might also wish join
planetari societi one largest space group world
dedic planetari explor period planetari report
detail latest space probe mission write planetari
societi north catalina avenu pasadena california
usa  good luck studi area space explor person find
planetari mission one excit area field benefit
human societi receiv incred mani yet realiz
next faq upcom planetari probe mission schedul
========== END PREPROCESSED =====================


Feature vector (sorted, non-zero values only):
Term, Index, Value:
probe, 6886, 0.501877822099
mission, 5772, 0.232850776686
mar, 5500, 0.217423582149
lunar, 5392, 0.199293178781
orbit, 6280, 0.19867337717
lander, 5105, 0.177722588824
surfac, 8587, 0.175587539917
moon, 5851, 0.168500751541
venus, 9463, 0.162595214844
marin, 5511, 0.160412471819
pioneer, 6635, 0.148851924147
venera, 9459, 0.138553187778
luna, 5391, 0.135663915447
planet, 6664, 0.13486149858
soviet, 8161, 0.123168725557
planetari, 6665, 0.109383386969
voyag, 9588, 0.108387220072
flybi, 3564, 0.107177563626
space, 8164, 0.102534905028
ranger, 7095, 0.0939795362474
land, 5104, 0.091181814858
earth, 2956, 0.0886106512491
martian, 5522, 0.0858352419777
atmospher, 755, 0.0846978112574
launch, 5147, 0.0842196432525
imag, 4512, 0.0807794706231
return, 7346, 0.0800577157738
solar, 8107, 0.0772584167235
craft, 2207, 0.0769804534731
venusian, 9464, 0.0757724814604
surveyor, 8598, 0.0730764445271
spacecraft, 8166, 0.0715973209945
mercuri, 5640, 0.0709470064817
jupit, 4932, 0.070055434505
accomplish, 218, 0.0650627558636
attempt, 763, 0.0647457405463
fail, 3360, 0.0636349205301
saturn, 7640, 0.0612443220721
becam, 980, 0.0602845415658
ring, 7406, 0.0578335607676
phobo, 6599, 0.0570690488192
explor, 3307, 0.0569879052679
vike, 9517, 0.0566836697812
rocket, 7447, 0.0560450304278
januari, 4824, 0.0531690679682
uranus, 9348, 0.0520195693776
august, 784, 0.0508198138909
ceas, 1589, 0.0505550191538
impact, 4534, 0.04868511747
success, 8513, 0.0475436410606
studi, 8469, 0.0460670028139
satellit, 7632, 0.0458263099293
similar, 7961, 0.0443466669462
neptun, 6006, 0.0429176209889
discov, 2698, 0.0418802506108
sakigak, 7588, 0.0417579683012
hagoromo, 4115, 0.0417579683012
farsid, 3392, 0.0405629918953
soft, 8097, 0.0384902267365
hiten, 4320, 0.0380460325462
work, 9833, 0.0379290795906
crater, 2213, 0.0374152818576
soil, 8104, 0.0368510561402
sent, 7793, 0.0364653570704
sagan, 7581, 0.0358746893244
went, 9704, 0.0358700635181
march, 5504, 0.0358484158642
period, 6546, 0.0357986604972
apollo, 570, 0.0355635222678
took, 8987, 0.0354508664806
reach, 7128, 0.0349239374853
carl, 1520, 0.0340094403434
recommend, 7178, 0.0339591547927
novemb, 6129, 0.0337033461026
book, 1218, 0.0335674881622
flew, 3539, 0.0334138057893
interplanetari, 4718, 0.0331391203851
interstellar, 4723, 0.0326287161389
octob, 6197, 0.0321627535693
approach, 589, 0.0318976287577
crash, 2212, 0.0315320028808
general, 3818, 0.0310141545745
outer, 6324, 0.0309677771633
inform, 4637, 0.0308025422069
japanes, 4826, 0.0307921813892
close, 1830, 0.0304468987016
skew, 8004, 0.0304222439214
camera, 1473, 0.0301422707829
capsul, 1506, 0.0296899688096
sister, 7992, 0.0290708390243
cloud, 1835, 0.0289167803838
miss, 5770, 0.0283030472985
batteri, 950, 0.0280614613932
comet, 1926, 0.0279201670739
encyclopedia, 3090, 0.0276382921051
place, 6657, 0.0275127286503
seri, 7805, 0.0272981562512
area, 622, 0.0272175048041
year, 9943, 0.0269172200121
world, 9841, 0.0269029681207
section, 7759, 0.0263543735939
overview, 6354, 0.026286887208
design, 2564, 0.0260104208924
transmiss, 9058, 0.0260097846888
unman, 9293, 0.0255070802576
septemb, 7801, 0.0255070802576
isa, 4774, 0.0255070802576
data, 2385, 0.0247899623727
major, 5458, 0.024570467655
schedul, 7678, 0.0243619794282
magnet, 5437, 0.0242930013348
decemb, 2438, 0.024122065177
transmit, 9059, 0.0236490021606
confirm, 2032, 0.0235029353917
shut, 7925, 0.0230941360419
axi, 840, 0.0230941360419
primarili, 6864, 0.0228430296878
head, 4215, 0.0226048573947
weather, 9679, 0.0224935577606
titan, 8951, 0.0223835126994
control, 2107, 0.0223489292472
reveal, 7352, 0.0222764025257
test, 8812, 0.0220033131199
appear, 580, 0.0217740038433
nichola, 6051, 0.0216492804172
gatland, 3793, 0.0216492804172
becom, 983, 0.0214625677653
known, 5054, 0.0214023964434
attitud, 769, 0.0210166303515
volcano, 9573, 0.0208789841506
utc, 9382, 0.0208789841506
planitia, 6668, 0.0208789841506
magnetospher, 5439, 0.0208789841506
circl, 1765, 0.0208650503443
signal, 7947, 0.0207189835754
scientist, 7694, 0.0203101842256
sulfur, 8531, 0.0202814959476
pvo, 7001, 0.0202814959476
halley, 4130, 0.0202814959476
eventu, 3233, 0.0197657801954
list, 5298, 0.019613360308
vehicl, 9449, 0.0192365429279
societi, 8093, 0.0190429443205
scientif, 7693, 0.0189959684226
order, 6281, 0.0189305020837
function, 3722, 0.0188133736398
minut, 5747, 0.0185541615444
man, 5471, 0.0184960592715
cover, 2194, 0.0184713463737
includ, 4579, 0.0184269590701
kenneth, 4985, 0.0184255280701
jovian, 4902, 0.0184255280701
error, 3180, 0.0181184605972
high, 4292, 0.0181103859316
vega, 9447, 0.0179373446622
far, 3386, 0.0178885415535
american, 469, 0.017863943293
librari, 5250, 0.0178288653977
great, 4016, 0.0178114871117
lost, 5355, 0.0177596155188
various, 9432, 0.0177254332403
date, 2391, 0.0176579292399
follow, 3578, 0.0176014526897
albeit, 382, 0.017524591472
entir, 3129, 0.0174619687427
sky, 8011, 0.0173674610063
histori, 4314, 0.0173674610063
decay, 2433, 0.0173398564592
good, 3948, 0.0172073776779
journey, 4900, 0.0171670483955
guidanc, 4083, 0.0171670483955
februari, 3423, 0.0171670483955
incorrect, 4588, 0.0170047201717
arthur, 663, 0.0170047201717
record, 7184, 0.0169818283791
atlas, 751, 0.0168516730513
problem, 6887, 0.0168478859547
thirti, 8877, 0.0167069028946
program, 6905, 0.0166226344243
sun, 8539, 0.0166041711189
handbook, 4146, 0.0164389198611
prompt, 6915, 0.0163143580694
color, 1907, 0.0161425671501
radar, 7055, 0.0160813767846
massiv, 5536, 0.0160813767846
red, 7194, 0.0160742981952
ocean, 6194, 0.0159720719896
time, 8936, 0.0159050572369
murray, 5929, 0.0158670547785
largest, 5126, 0.0158670547785
dust, 2928, 0.0158670547785
nation, 5962, 0.0158122665886
small, 8054, 0.0156466186389
new, 6023, 0.0155994970815
complet, 1975, 0.0155267173923
smooth, 8069, 0.0154838885817
launcher, 5148, 0.015311080518
descend, 2554, 0.015311080518
ran, 7089, 0.0152286864585
panel, 6406, 0.0152286864585
illustr, 4511, 0.0152286864585
davi, 2396, 0.0152286864585
bruce, 1347, 0.0152286864585
mani, 5479, 0.0151903563005
photograph, 6604, 0.0151487522942
incred, 4591, 0.0151487522942
acknowledg, 239, 0.0151487522942
field, 3466, 0.0151153784323
encount, 3088, 0.0149957051737
radius, 7064, 0.0148509350171
pluto, 6701, 0.0148509350171
bus, 1419, 0.0148509350171
object, 6173, 0.0147911622529
join, 4881, 0.0146474754829
failur, 3361, 0.0145829519835
japan, 4825, 0.0144583901919
bar, 904, 0.0143982169708
altitud, 452, 0.0143982169708
origin, 6293, 0.0142836391127
travel, 9069, 0.0142254089071
numer, 6157, 0.0142254089071
affect, 310, 0.0142254089071
gas, 3780, 0.014116104112
thought, 8887, 0.0140181112225
sampl, 7601, 0.014011086901
second, 7753, 0.0139777451191
feet, 3430, 0.0139600835369
jpl, 4912, 0.0138609019889
essenti, 3196, 0.0136279207041
bug, 1373, 0.0135836619171
suffer, 8521, 0.0135401228171
univers, 9282, 0.0133471562862
track, 9030, 0.0132536947348
pressur, 6842, 0.0132536947348
jet, 4860, 0.0132536947348
thousand, 8888, 0.0131771867969
intend, 4700, 0.0131397372962
earlier, 2952, 0.0130304325011
propuls, 6936, 0.0129949671396
collect, 1898, 0.0129254152901
astronomi, 729, 0.0128913053301
plus, 6700, 0.0128576244375
modifi, 5814, 0.012824361952
soon, 8136, 0.0127590515031
mass, 5533, 0.0126639789484
air, 357, 0.0126024223144
remain, 7264, 0.0125422490932
previous, 6855, 0.0125422490932
featur, 3422, 0.0125422490932
burn, 1413, 0.0125422490932
faq, 3385, 0.0125126620999
effort, 3007, 0.0125126620999
degre, 2491, 0.0124258135465
wish, 9801, 0.0123974789366
publish, 6974, 0.0123694410296
million, 5724, 0.0123694410296
normal, 6108, 0.0122601362345
read, 7135, 0.0122261875784
giant, 3865, 0.0121809897141
stori, 8418, 0.0121041156594
measur, 5601, 0.0120789737315
surpris, 8593, 0.0120540656853
ground, 4061, 0.0120293872097
dead, 2415, 0.0119328868324
day, 2402, 0.0119100348865
technic, 8737, 0.0118859102652
main, 5450, 0.0117497319883
indic, 4600, 0.0116626480315
activ, 252, 0.0114368165391
natur, 5966, 0.0113401419356
carri, 1530, 0.0113212189194
station, 8346, 0.0113024286974
futur, 3737, 0.0113024286974
continu, 2092, 0.0113024286974
evid, 3245, 0.0112837694187
compar, 1960, 0.011265239271
particular, 6442, 0.0112104060445
april, 595, 0.0111214411948
plan, 6660, 0.0109355397278
perform, 6539, 0.0108710162285
caus, 1569, 0.0108393283361
greeley, 4024, 0.0108246402086
turn, 9158, 0.0106566942224
report, 7291, 0.0106566942224
specif, 8203, 0.0106274305906
engin, 3109, 0.0104446365679
miranda, 5754, 0.0104394920753
mallov, 5470, 0.0104394920753
klae, 5037, 0.0104394920753
ici, 4476, 0.0104394920753
ariel, 635, 0.0104394920753
expect, 3290, 0.0103775253943
human, 4432, 0.0103380515248
send, 7785, 0.0102863089359
varianc, 9428, 0.0101407479738
unsuccess, 9314, 0.0101407479738
triton, 9107, 0.0101407479738
transistor, 9055, 0.0101407479738
tandem, 8690, 0.0101407479738
starflight, 8331, 0.0101407479738
sol, 8106, 0.0101407479738
odyssey, 6200, 0.0101407479738
matloff, 5549, 0.0101407479738
geocentr, 3836, 0.0101407479738
eclipt, 2978, 0.0101407479738
deimo, 2493, 0.0101407479738
commonwealth, 1949, 0.0101407479738
categor, 1559, 0.0101407479738
brake, 1268, 0.0101407479738
nasa, 5956, 0.0100769189549
scienc, 7692, 0.0100067595965
power, 6783, 0.00993839173801
transcript, 9051, 0.00989665626986
shroud, 7922, 0.00989665626986
peculiar, 6501, 0.00989665626986
murmur, 5927, 0.00989665626986
jane, 4822, 0.00989665626986
dioxid, 2663, 0.00989665626986
closeup, 1833, 0.00989665626986
canaver, 1485, 0.00989665626986
buse, 1421, 0.00989665626986
refer, 7213, 0.00987172616202
life, 5260, 0.00986077483529
shepherd, 7877, 0.00969027967475
scoop, 7703, 0.00969027967475
renam, 7274, 0.00969027967475
nth, 6145, 0.00969027967475
gregori, 4035, 0.00969027967475
fahrenheit, 3359, 0.00969027967475
align, 414, 0.00969027967475
1990s, 40, 0.00969027967475
set, 7815, 0.0095907109035
stranger, 8427, 0.00951150813654
slope, 8041, 0.00951150813654
rover, 7500, 0.00951150813654
plasma, 6672, 0.00951150813654
opt, 6272, 0.00951150813654
joel, 4877, 0.00951150813654
expedit, 3291, 0.00951150813654
aerobrak, 299, 0.00951150813654
state, 8342, 0.00949368595319
transmitt, 9060, 0.00935382046441
regain, 7223, 0.00935382046441
pink, 6634, 0.00935382046441
photographi, 6605, 0.00935382046441
pertin, 6568, 0.00935382046441
parachut, 6413, 0.00935382046441
leak, 5178, 0.00935382046441
hart, 4187, 0.00935382046441
feat, 3421, 0.00935382046441
drift, 2870, 0.00935382046441
deg, 2488, 0.00935382046441
acid, 236, 0.00935382046441
accident, 211, 0.00935382046441
group, 4064, 0.00931849674608
comput, 1993, 0.00928303138451
howev, 4406, 0.00923069885903
upcom, 9332, 0.00921276403505
uncov, 9233, 0.00921276403505
startl, 8336, 0.00921276403505
eugen, 3217, 0.00921276403505
clayton, 1797, 0.00921276403505
everi, 3235, 0.00917090955009
unexpect, 9260, 0.00908516297348
sink, 7985, 0.00908516297348
omit, 6234, 0.00908516297348
moor, 5853, 0.00908516297348
landscap, 5109, 0.00908516297348
disast, 2681, 0.00908516297348
crush, 2259, 0.00908516297348
climat, 1818, 0.00908516297348
cape, 1501, 0.00908516297348
canyon, 1496, 0.00908516297348
ultraviolet, 9201, 0.00896867233109
profil, 6902, 0.00896867233109
softwar, 8103, 0.00893652085626
use, 9363, 0.00887037284384
preliminari, 6824, 0.00886151132803
lightn, 5270, 0.00886151132803
interv, 4724, 0.00886151132803
immens, 4528, 0.00886151132803
compens, 1968, 0.00886151132803
carbon, 1512, 0.00886151132803
alphabet, 442, 0.00886151132803
possibl, 6765, 0.00877874869214
soyuz, 8163, 0.00876229573599
patrick, 6466, 0.00876229573599
onboard, 6239, 0.00876229573599
lane, 5110, 0.00876229573599
eject, 3022, 0.00876229573599
bookstor, 1220, 0.00876229573599
atlant, 748, 0.00876229573599
kilomet, 5016, 0.0086699282296
highlight, 4296, 0.0086699282296
balloon, 882, 0.0086699282296
anoth, 533, 0.008629757921
stream, 8438, 0.00858352419777
geograph, 3841, 0.00858352419777
booth, 1227, 0.00858352419777
terrain, 8801, 0.00850236008585
centaur, 1604, 0.00850236008585
start, 8334, 0.00847556087758
union, 9275, 0.00842583652564
sunlight, 8544, 0.00842583652564
kelli, 4977, 0.00842583652564
ussr, 9376, 0.00835345144732
spoke, 8250, 0.00835345144732
schmidt, 7681, 0.00835345144732
revis, 7359, 0.00835345144732
museum, 5931, 0.00835345144732
heavili, 4232, 0.00835345144732
sand, 7605, 0.00828478009628
compos, 1981, 0.00828478009628
avenu, 815, 0.00828478009628
tini, 8941, 0.00821945993054
stabl, 8298, 0.00821945993054
robot, 7442, 0.00821945993054
propel, 6923, 0.00821945993054
micro, 5684, 0.00821945993054
log, 5328, 0.00821945993054
fortran, 3618, 0.00821945993054
bizarr, 1131, 0.00821945993054
sinc, 7977, 0.00816235802483
liquid, 5294, 0.00815717903472
larri, 5128, 0.00815717903472
interfer, 4710, 0.00815717903472
dot, 2826, 0.00815717903472
broken, 1332, 0.00815717903472
loop, 5344, 0.0080976671116
lewi, 5235, 0.0080976671116
layer, 5160, 0.0080976671116
variat, 9430, 0.00804068839232
patch, 6459, 0.00804068839232
inclin, 4578, 0.00804068839232
contrast, 2101, 0.00804068839232
closest, 1832, 0.00804068839232
biolog, 1107, 0.00804068839232
flow, 3555, 0.00798603599479
dedic, 2462, 0.00798603599479
cosmic, 2164, 0.00798603599479
boulder, 1248, 0.00798603599479
aim, 353, 0.00793352738927
wilson, 9768, 0.00788300072019
region, 7228, 0.00788300072019
height, 4238, 0.00788300072019
andrew, 505, 0.00788300072019
veloc, 9456, 0.00783431179722
particl, 6441, 0.00783431179722
geolog, 3842, 0.00783431179722
adapt, 259, 0.00783431179722
percent, 6533, 0.00778733161453
newspap, 6035, 0.00778733161453
discoveri, 2700, 0.00778733161453
belt, 1017, 0.00778733161453
econom, 2984, 0.00774194429083
deliv, 2507, 0.00774194429083
henc, 4252, 0.00769804534731
dougla, 2837, 0.00769804534731
useless, 9364, 0.00765554025901
nick, 6052, 0.00765554025901
honor, 4364, 0.00765554025901
decad, 2432, 0.00765554025901
van, 9416, 0.00761434322927
unabl, 9211, 0.00761434322927
richard, 7383, 0.00761434322927
rare, 7101, 0.00761434322927
excit, 3265, 0.00761434322927
aurora, 787, 0.00761434322927
antenna, 538, 0.00761434322927
optic, 6273, 0.00757437614709
negat, 5996, 0.00757437614709
debat, 2426, 0.00757437614709
cycl, 2325, 0.00757437614709
channel, 1652, 0.00757437614709
treat, 9076, 0.00753556769573
motor, 5882, 0.00753556769573
minim, 5739, 0.00753556769573
attach, 760, 0.00753556769573
arc, 608, 0.00753556769573
wave, 9661, 0.00749785258687
surround, 8595, 0.00749785258687
sub, 8482, 0.00749785258687
los, 5349, 0.00749785258687
destroy, 2574, 0.00749785258687
intens, 4701, 0.00746117089978
target, 8704, 0.00742546750855
began, 993, 0.00742546750855
guid, 4082, 0.00739069158382
florida, 3552, 0.00739069158382
band, 891, 0.00739069158382
task, 8707, 0.00735679615751
switch, 8638, 0.00735679615751
complic, 1978, 0.00735679615751
touch, 9015, 0.00732373774145
iron, 4767, 0.00732373774145
expand, 3288, 0.00732373774145
arriv, 655, 0.00732373774145
thing, 8869, 0.00731494167256
european, 3222, 0.00729147599177
johnson, 4880, 0.00725997341298
equival, 3162, 0.00725997341298
charl, 1668, 0.00725997341298
purchas, 6988, 0.00722919509595
led, 5188, 0.00722919509595
instruct, 4684, 0.00722919509595
stretch, 8443, 0.00719910848538
surviv, 8599, 0.00716968317284
pasadena, 6446, 0.00716968317284
heavi, 4230, 0.00716968317284
despit, 2570, 0.00716968317284
conclud, 2008, 0.00716968317284
radiat, 7058, 0.00714089071203
primari, 6863, 0.00714089071203
passag, 6449, 0.00714089071203
modul, 5815, 0.00714089071203
western, 9709, 0.00711270445356
leader, 5173, 0.00711270445356
fulli, 3718, 0.00711270445356
reflect, 7216, 0.00705805205602
observatori, 6180, 0.00705805205602
bright, 1311, 0.00705805205602
smaller, 8055, 0.00703154034164
principl, 6870, 0.00703154034164
latest, 5141, 0.00703154034164
instrument, 4686, 0.00703154034164
deriv, 2550, 0.00703154034164
wind, 9773, 0.0070055434505
water, 9657, 0.0070055434505
scan, 7660, 0.0070055434505
safeti, 7579, 0.0070055434505
histor, 4313, 0.0070055434505
deep, 2466, 0.0070055434505
fear, 3417, 0.00698004176847
dynam, 2942, 0.00698004176847
core, 2140, 0.00698004176847
pure, 6990, 0.00693045099446
multipl, 5919, 0.00693045099446
intellig, 4698, 0.00693045099446
approxim, 593, 0.00693045099446
mile, 5713, 0.00690632785845
magazin, 5432, 0.00690632785845
luck, 5381, 0.00690632785845
greater, 4017, 0.00690632785845
expir, 3300, 0.00690632785845
background, 855, 0.00685934767576
telescop, 8764, 0.00681396035207
suppli, 8574, 0.00681396035207
graviti, 4010, 0.00681396035207
cross, 2241, 0.00679183095854
avoid, 827, 0.00679183095854
meant, 5598, 0.00677006140854
kept, 4989, 0.00677006140854
hot, 4389, 0.00677006140854
washington, 9651, 0.00674864018632
laboratori, 5090, 0.00674864018632
make, 5459, 0.00671576466747
independ, 4595, 0.00670679934901
gmt, 3917, 0.00670679934901
allen, 426, 0.00670679934901
benefit, 1028, 0.0066863592905
assist, 705, 0.0066863592905
north, 6110, 0.00666622661297
california, 1459, 0.00666622661297
thoma, 8878, 0.00664639220832
aspect, 693, 0.00664639220832
obtain, 6183, 0.00662684736739
jame, 4820, 0.00662684736739
race, 7049, 0.00660758375696
communic, 1950, 0.00660758375696
meet, 5615, 0.00658859339847
archiv, 618, 0.00658859339847
huge, 4427, 0.00656986864811
smith, 8064, 0.00655140217842
search, 7746, 0.00655140217842
distanc, 2744, 0.00655140217842
spot, 8261, 0.00653318696102
protect, 6940, 0.00653318696102
advantag, 286, 0.00653318696102
energi, 3102, 0.00651521625057
difficult, 2635, 0.00651521625057
polit, 6723, 0.00649748356979
plane, 6663, 0.00649748356979
enter, 3125, 0.00649748356979
drop, 2878, 0.0064799826954
calcul, 1451, 0.00644565266503
usa, 9357, 0.00642881221875
factor, 3352, 0.00642881221875
immedi, 4527, 0.00641218097598
express, 3315, 0.00639575380268
connect, 2046, 0.00639575380268
unfortun, 9264, 0.00636349205301
dark, 2365, 0.00634764810683
analysi, 490, 0.00634764810683
easili, 2962, 0.00633198947422
gave, 3798, 0.00630121115719
scale, 7659, 0.00624169923407
extra, 3325, 0.00624169923407
environ, 3139, 0.00622722560309
rotat, 7490, 0.00621290677327
appar, 577, 0.00621290677327
step, 8377, 0.00618472051479
concept, 2002, 0.00618472051479
blue, 1176, 0.00617084683803
minor, 5745, 0.0061571154579
realiz, 7149, 0.00614352348505
mode, 5806, 0.00614352348505
late, 5139, 0.00614352348505
market, 5514, 0.00610355640287
contribut, 2103, 0.00610355640287
unit, 9278, 0.00607755951173
event, 3232, 0.00607755951173
taken, 8678, 0.00606474795151
predict, 6816, 0.00606474795151
memori, 5628, 0.00606474795151
rang, 7094, 0.00605205782971
statement, 8343, 0.00603948686574
pick, 6619, 0.00602703284266
map, 5498, 0.00600246705569
radio, 7061, 0.00597834391969
depend, 2537, 0.00597834391969
death, 2423, 0.00597834391969
knowledg, 5053, 0.00596644341621
prove, 6947, 0.00594295513258
strong, 8456, 0.005931363737
offic, 6206, 0.005931363737
locat, 5323, 0.005931363737
materi, 5543, 0.00589717980777
sometim, 8128, 0.0058859764133
lose, 5350, 0.0058859764133
command, 1933, 0.00587486599413
receiv, 7167, 0.00585291799723
limit, 5278, 0.00585291799723
hold, 4341, 0.00585291799723
written, 9867, 0.00584207746977
flight, 3544, 0.00582065624756
star, 8324, 0.00578915366877
know, 5052, 0.00576749499683
purpos, 6993, 0.00575837535174
instead, 4682, 0.00574827116923
add, 260, 0.00574827116923
white, 9737, 0.00573824267421
frank, 3655, 0.00572828874117
rest, 7324, 0.00571840826956
quick, 7036, 0.005708600183
learn, 5182, 0.00568919697633
stop, 8413, 0.0056606094597
past, 6456, 0.0056606094597
later, 5140, 0.00561427965245
organ, 6287, 0.00560520302225
oper, 6261, 0.00560520302225
experi, 3295, 0.00560520302225
sens, 7788, 0.00557833661246
observ, 6179, 0.00556949963102
earli, 2951, 0.00555199875663
site, 7994, 0.00551766872626
month, 5847, 0.00551766872626
low, 5368, 0.00551766872626
basic, 937, 0.00550922202426
author, 796, 0.00549248683352
simpli, 7967, 0.00548419703721
valu, 9414, 0.00547595825535
die, 2628, 0.00547595825535
mark, 5512, 0.00545154181278
lead, 5172, 0.00543550811424
explain, 3301, 0.00541181195889
deal, 2418, 0.00541181195889
center, 1606, 0.00540400553545
effect, 3005, 0.00536564194132
alreadi, 443, 0.00536564194132
light, 5267, 0.00532834711118
left, 5193, 0.00532834711118
technolog, 8743, 0.00532101121432
recent, 7168, 0.00532101121432
away, 833, 0.00530645892076
view, 9510, 0.00522913151914
type, 9177, 0.00522913151914
claim, 1782, 0.00521553954629
result, 7332, 0.00519540686876
appreci, 587, 0.00517557246411
research, 7307, 0.00514957557297
public, 6973, 0.00514315446797
clear, 1803, 0.00513676401275
seen, 7767, 0.004969195869
project, 6909, 0.004969195869
provid, 6949, 0.00495242573958
sourc, 8153, 0.00494136123176
week, 9691, 0.00493038741764
live, 5310, 0.00490870600733
note, 6118, 0.00483039141297
chang, 1650, 0.00481025873544
understand, 9246, 0.0048003048024
hope, 4372, 0.00478551130573
certain, 1619, 0.00473734791675
case, 1540, 0.0046547931349
avail, 811, 0.00465035267369
els, 3053, 0.00462836863577
write, 9865, 0.00461534942951
end, 3091, 0.00461534942951
support, 8576, 0.00461103767755
fact, 3350, 0.0045939282073
cours, 2190, 0.00458123808549
idea, 4482, 0.00457703463517
big, 1082, 0.00456035158034
talk, 8684, 0.00452759648289
best, 1052, 0.00447602159668
person, 6562, 0.00446054399278
team, 8732, 0.00444524327965
probabl, 6885, 0.00437847498199
tell, 8767, 0.00437486149039
number, 6156, 0.00435338298972
articl, 665, 0.0043148789605
sure, 8585, 0.00431143288955
actual, 254, 0.00430456724462
mean, 5595, 0.00413740198918
differ, 2633, 0.00412237604216
run, 7543, 0.00403280060732
post, 6766, 0.00391003597249
tri, 9087, 0.00387728857927
point, 6710, 0.00377896202227
thank, 8832, 0.00374923514472
anyon, 554, 0.00359759171683
way, 9666, 0.00350213152087
think, 8871, 0.00306624780878
