Filename: /home/dev/scikit_learn_data/20news_home/20news-bydate-train/sci.space/59873
Truth category: 2 (sci.space)
Assigned cluster: 1 (graphic imag file thank program format gif use bit help)

Raw data:
============ START RAW ==========================
Subject: Space FAQ 03/15 - Data Sources
From: leech@cs.unc.edu (Jon Leech)
Expires: 6 May 1993 19:55:35 GMT
Organization: University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Keywords: Frequently Asked Questions
Supersedes: <data_730956427@cs.unc.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mahler.cs.unc.edu
Lines: 463

Archive-name: space/data
Last-modified: $Date: 93/04/01 14:39:07 $

ONLINE AND OTHER SOURCES OF IMAGES, DATA, ETC.


INTRODUCTION

    A wide variety of images, data, catalogs, information releases, and
    other material dealing with space and astronomy may be found on the net.
    A few sites offer direct dialup access or remote login access, while the
    remainder support some form of file transfer. Many sites are listed as
    providing 'anonymous FTP'. This refers to the File Transfer Protocol on
    the Internet. Sites not connected to the Internet cannot use FTP
    directly, but there are a few automated FTP servers which operates via
    email. Send mail containing only the word HELP to ftpmail@decwrl.dec.com
    or bitftp@pucc.princeton.edu, and the servers will send you instructions
    on how to make requests.

    The sources with the broadest selection of material are the NASA Ames
    SPACE archive and the National Space Science Data Center.

    Don't even ask for images to be posted to the net. The data volume is
    huge and nobody wants to spend the time on it.


VIEWING IMAGES

    The possible combinations of image formats and machines is forebodingly
    large, and I won't attempt to cover common formats (GIF, etc.) here. To
    read PDS and VICAR (and many other) formats on Unix systems running X,
    use XV 2.11, available by anonymous FTP from export.lcs.mit.edu
    (18.24.0.12) in contrib/xv-2.11.tar.Z and the other standard X11 FTP
    sites.

    The FAQ for the Usenet group alt.binaries.pictures discusses image
    formats and how to get image viewing software. A copy of this document
    is available by anonymous FTP from the Usenet FAQ archives at
    pit-manager.mit.edu (18.72.1.58), in directory
    pub/usenet/alt.binaries.pictures.


ONLINE ARCHIVES

    NASA AMES

    Extensive archives are maintained at NASA Ames and are available via
    anonymous FTP or an email server. These archives include many images and
    a wide variety of documents including this FAQ list, NASA press
    releases, shuttle launch advisories, and mission status reports. Please
    note that these are NOT maintained on an official basis.

    FTP users should connect to ames.arc.nasa.gov (128.102.18.3) and look in
    pub/SPACE. pub/SPACE/Index contains a listing of files available in the
    archive (the index is about 200K by itself).

    To access the archives by email, send a letter to
    archive-server@ames.arc.nasa.gov (or ames!archive-server). In the
    subject of your letter (or in the body), use commands like:

	send SPACE Index
	send SPACE SHUTTLE/ss01.23.91.

    The capitalization of the subdirectory names is important. All are in
    caps. Only text files are handled by the email server at present; use
    one of the FTP email servers described in the introduction to this
    section for images or programs.

    The Magellan Venus and Voyager Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus CD-ROM image
    disks have been put online in the CDROM and CDROM2 directories. The
    disks will be rotated on a weekly basis. Thousands of images are
    available in these collections.

    The GIF directory contains images in GIF format. The VICAR directory
    contains Magellan images in VICAR format (these are also available in
    the GIF directory). A PC program capable of displaying these files is
    found in the IMDISP directory (see the item "VIEWING IMAGES" below).

    The NASA media guide describes the various NASA centers and how to
    contact their public affairs officers; this may be useful when pursuing
    specific information. It's in MISC/media.guide.

    Any problems with the archive server should be reported to Peter Yee
    (yee@ames.arc.nasa.gov).


    NASA ASTROPHYSICS DATA SYSTEM

    The ADS is a distributed data retrieval system which is easy to use and
    provides uniform access to ground-based and space-based astronomy data
    from NASA data centers across the country. It currently has over 140
    data catalogs of radio, infrared, optical, UV, and X-ray data which can
    be queried by position or any other parameter in the catalog. The ADS
    also provides tools to manipulate and plot tabular results. In addition,
    ADS has a Beta version of an Abstracts Service which allows users to
    query over 125,000 abstracts of astronomy papers since 1975 by authors,
    keywords, title words, or abstract text words.

    ADS use requires direct Internet access. For more info and to sign up to
    become a user, email ads@cuads.coloradu.edu. The User's Guide and
    "QuickStart" Guide are available by anonymous FTP to sao-ftp.harvard.edu
    in directory pub/ads/ADS_User_Guide (PostScript files).

    Contact Carolyn Stern Grant (stern@cfa.harvard.edu).


    NASA JET PROPULSION LAB (MISSION INFORMATION AND IMAGES)

    pubinfo.jpl.nasa.gov (128.149.6.2) is an anonymous FTP site operated by
    the JPL Public Information Office, containing news releases, status
    reports, fact sheets, images, and other data on JPL missions. It may
    also be reached by modem at (818)-354-1333 (no parity, 8 data bits, 1
    stop bit).

    Contact newsdesk@jplpost.jpl.nasa.gov or phone (818)-354-7170.


    NASA LANGLEY (TECHNICAL REPORTS)

    techreports.larc.nasa.gov is an anonymous FTP site offering technical
    reports. To get started, cd to directory pub/techreports/larc/92 and
    retrieve files README and abstracts.92. Most files are compressed
    PostScript. The reports are also in a WAIS database with the following
    description:

	(:source
	 :version 3
	 :ip-name "techreports.larc.nasa.gov"
	 :tcp-port 210
	 :database-name "nasa-larc-abs"
	 :cost 0.00
	 :cost-unit :free
	 :maintainer "M.L.Nelson@LaRC.NASA.GOV"
	 :description "NASA Langley Research Center Technical Reports

    Contact tr-admin@techreports.larc.nasa.gov.


    NASA SPACELINK

    SpaceLink is an online service located at Marshall Space Flight Center
    in Huntsville, Alabama. The system is specifically designed for
    teachers. The data base is arranged to provide easy access to current
    and historical information on NASA aeronautics, space research, and
    technology transfer information. Also included are suggested classroom
    activities that incorporate information on NASA projects to teach a
    number of scientific principles. Unlike bulletin board systems, NASA
    Spacelink does not provide for interaction between callers. However it
    does allow teachers and other callers to leave questions and comments
    for NASA which may be answered by regular mail. Messages are answered
    electronically, even to acknowledge requests which will be fulfilled by
    mail. Messages are generally handled the next working day except during
    missions when turnaround times increase. The mail system is closed-loop
    between the user and NASA.

    SpaceLink also offers downloadable shareware and public domain programs
    useful for science educators as well as space graphics and GIF images
    from NASA's planetary probes and the Hubble Telescope.

    You can dial in at (205)-895-0028 (300/1200/2400/9600(V.32) baud, 8
    bits, no parity, 1 stop bit), or telnet to spacelink.msfc.nasa.gov
    (128.158.13.250, also known as xsl.msfc.nasa.gov) if you're on the
    Internet. Anonymous FTP capability (password guest) is now available.

    Most of this information is also available from the Ames server in
    directory SPACELINK.


    NATIONAL SPACE SCIENCE DATA CENTER (NSSDC)

    The National Space Science Data Center is the official clearinghouse for
    NASA data. The data catalog (*not* the data itself) is available online.
    Internet users can telnet to nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov (128.183.36.23) and
    log in as 'NODIS' (no password). You can also get the catalog by sending
    email to 'request@nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov'.

    You can also dial in at (301)-286-9000 (300, 1200, or 2400 baud, 8 bits,
    no parity, one stop). At the "Enter Number:" prompt, enter MD and
    carriage return. When the system responds "Call Complete," enter a few
    more carriage returns to get the "Username:" and log in as 'NODIS' (no
    password).

    The system is menu-driven; topics available as of 3/93 are:

	1   -	Master Directory - NASA & Global Change
	2   -	Personnel Information Management System
	3   -	Nimbus-7 GRID TOMS Data
	4   -	Interplanetary Medium Data (OMNI)
	5   -	Request data and/or information from NSSDC
	6   -	Geophysical Models
	7   -	CANOPUS Newsletter
	8   -	International Ultraviolet Explorer Data Request
	9   -	CZCS Browse and Order Utility
	10  -	Astronomical Data Center (ADC)
	11  -	STEP Bulletin Board Service
	12  -	Standards and Technology Information System
	13  -	Planetary Science & Magellan Project Information
	14  -	Other Online Data Services at NSSDC
	15  -	CD-ROMS Available at NSSDC

    For users with Internet access, datasets are made available via
    anonymous FTP once you select the desired datasets from the online
    catalog. For other users, data may be ordered on CD-ROM and in other
    formats. Among the many types of data available are Voyager, Magellan,
    and other planetary images, Earth observation data, and star catalogs.
    Viewers for Macintosh and IBM systems are also available. As an example
    of the cost, an 8 CD set of Voyager images is $75. Data may ordered
    online, by email, or by physical mail. The postal address is:

	National Space Science Data Center
	Request Coordination Office
	Goddard Space Flight Center
	Code 633
	Greenbelt, MD  20771

	Telephone: (301) 286-6695

	Email address:	 request@nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov


    SPACE TELESCOPE SCIENCE INSTITUTE ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SERVICE

    stsci.edu (130.167.1.2) has a large amount of information about the
    Hubble Space Telescope available by anonymous FTP, such as status
    reports and newsletters, in addition to material oriented towards HST
    observers and proposers. Get the top level README file to begin with.
    Contact Pete Reppert (reppert@stsci.edu) or Chris O'Dea
    (odea@stsci.edu).


    STARCAT

    The Space Telescope European Coordination Facility, at ESO/Garching
    provides on-line access to a huge astronomical database, featuring

	- Observation log files of several satellites/telescopes
	    (IUE,IRAS,HST,NTT...).
	- Spectra and images (IUE, HST).
	- Most of the astronomical catalogues (SAO, HR, NGC, PPM, IRAS,
	    Veron, GSC and many others, more than 50) in a very convenient
	    way (give center+radius+kind of objects, and you get the
	    corresponding files!).

    Log on as ``starcat'' (no password) on node stesis.hq.eso.org
    (134.171.8.100) or on STESIS (DECnet). The files created can be
    retreived by FTP. Contact: Benoit Pirenne, bpirenne@eso.org (phone +49
    89 320 06 433) at ST-ECF


    ASTRONOMICAL DATABASES

    The full SAO stellar database is *NOT* available online, probably due to
    the 40 MB size. It may be ordered on magnetic tape from the NSSDC. A
    subset containing position and magnitude only is available by FTP (see
    "Astronomy Programs" below).

    nic.funet.fi (128.214.6.100) has a large collection of astronomical
    programs for many types of computers, databases of stars and deep sky
    objects, and general astronomy information in directory /pub/astro. This
    site is mainly for European users, but overseas connections are
    possible.

    The Ames archives contain a database of 8,436 galaxies including name,
    RA, declination, magnitude, and radial velocity in MISC/galaxy.dat.
    Supplied by Wayne Hayes (wayne@csri.utoronto.ca).

    iris1.ucis.dal.ca (129.173.18.107) has a number of GIFs from Voyager,
    Hubble, and other sources available by anonymous FTP in pub/gif (most of
    this data is also in SPACE/GIF on the Ames server). Please restrict
    access to 5pm - 8am Atlantic time.

    pomona.claremont.edu has the Yale Bright Star catalog for anonymous FTP
    in directory [.YALE_BSC]. Contact James Dishaw
    (jdishaw@hmcvax.claremont.edu).

    The Hubble Guide Star catalog is available on CD-ROM for the Mac and PC
    for $49.95 US (catalog # ST101).

	Astronomical Society of the Pacific
	390 Ashton Ave.
	San Francisco, CA 94112
	Phone: (415) 337-2624 9 AM - 3 PM Pacific Time
	FAX: (415) 337-5205

    For German (and possibly other European) readers, Jost Jahn has a
    service to distribute astronomical data to interested amateurs at cost.
    About 30-40 catalogs are available for DM 6..8/disk. Several floppy disk
    formats are available. Because of the expense of receiving email on his
    system, he asks that you contact him by physical mail:

	Jost Jahn
	Neustaedter Strasse 11
	W-3123 Bodenteich
	GERMANY
	Phone: FRG-5824-3197


    ASTRONOMY PROGRAMS

    Various astronomy-related programs and databases posted to the net in
    the past are archived for anonymous FTP at multiple sites, including
    ftp.uu.net (137.39.1.9). Also see the ASTRO-FTP list posted to sci.astro
    monthly, which is more complete than this list.

    Astonomical/Space-related sources of interest in comp.sources.unix:

    Volume 8:	    phoon	moon phase and date routines
    Volume 12,13:   starchart	starchart program & Yale Star data
    Volume 15:	    moontool	shows moon phase picture on Suns
    Volume 16:	    sao		reduced SAO catalog

    Astonomical/Space-related sources of interest in comp.sources.misc:

    Volume  8:	    moon	another moon phase program
    Volume 11:	    starchart	starchart program, version 3.2
    Volume 11:	    n3emo-orbit orbit: track earth satellites
    Volume 12:	    starchart2	starchart program, update to version 3.2.1
    Volume 13:	    jupmoons	plotter for Jupiter's major moons [in perl]
    Volume 13:	    lunisolar	lunisolar (not sure what this does)
    Volume 14:	    ephem-4.21	astronomical ephemeris, v4.21
    Volume 14:	    n3emo-orbit patch to orbit 3.7
    Volume 18:	    planet	planet generation simulator

    Elwood Downey (e_downey@tasha.cca.cr.rockwell.com), the author of
    "ephem", has offered to mail copies to people who can't find it on one
    of the archives.

    XSAT, an X Window System based satellite tracking program, is
    available by anonymous FTP from export.lcs.mit.edu (18.24.0.12) in
    contrib/xsat1.0.tar.Z. Contact Dave Curry (davy@ecn.purdue.edu)
    for more information.

    Xsky, a computerized sky atlas for the X Window System, is available for
    anonymous FTP on arizona.edu in the directory [.SOFTWARE.UNIX.XSKY] as
    xsky.tarz. Contact Terry R. Friedrichsen (terry@venus.sunquest.com) for
    more information.

    The "Variable Stars Analysis Software Archive" is available via
    anonymous FTP from kauri.vuw.ac.nz (130.195.11.3) in directory
    pub/astrophys. This is intended for specialists in this field, and they
    would appreciate people from outside New Zealand confining their FTP
    access to the astrophys directory, as they pay a significant amount for
    Internet access. Contents are relatively sparse at present due to the
    youth of the archive - contributions are encouraged. Contact the archive
    administrator, Timothy Banks (bankst@kauri.vuw.ac.nz) for more
    information.

    The "IDL Astronomy Users Library" is available by anonymous FTP from
    idlastro.gsfc.nasa.gov (128.183.57.82). This is a central repository for
    general purpose astronomy procedures written in IDL, a commercial image
    processing, plotting, and programming language. Contact Wayne Landsman
    (landsman@stars.gsfc.nasa.gov) for more information.


    ORBITAL ELEMENT SETS

    The most recent orbital elements from the NASA Prediction Bulletins are
    carried on the Celestial BBS, (513)-427-0674. Documentation and tracking
    software are also available on this system. The Celestial BBS may be
    accessed 24 hours/day at 300, 1200, or 2400 baud using 8 data bits, 1
    stop bit, no parity.

    Orbital element sets are available via anonymous FTP from the
    following sites:

    archive.afit.af.mil (129.92.1.66)	    NASA,TVRO,Shuttle
    directory: /pub/space

    ftp.funet.fi (128.214.6.100)	    NASA,TVRO,Molczan,CelBBS,
    directory: /pub/astro/pc/satel	    Shuttle (*)

    kilroy.jpl.nasa.gov (128.149.1.165)     NASA,Molczan
    directory: /pub/space/


    SPACE DIGEST ARCHIVES

    Copies of back issues of Space Digest are archived on
    LISTSERV@UGA.BITNET. Send mail containing the message "INDEX SPACE" to
    get an index of files; send it the message "GET filename filetype" to
    get a particular file.


LANDSAT AND NASA PHOTOS

    You can get black-and-white 1:1M prints, negatives, or positives for
    $10, $18, $12 respectively for any Landsat data more than 2 years old
    from EDC, (Eros (Earth Resources Orbiting Satellite) Data Center). Call
    them at (605)-594-6511. You get 80 meter resolution from the MSS
    scanner, 135x180 kilometers on a picture 135x180 mm in size. I think you
    have to select one band from (green, red, near IR, second near IR), but
    I'm not sure. Digitial data is also available at higher prices.

    Transparencies of all NASA photos available to the public can be
    borrowed from the NASA photo archive; you can have copies or prints
    made.

	 NASA Audio-Visual Facility
	 918 North Rengstorff Ave
	 Mountain View, CA  94043
	 (415)-604-6270


PLANETARY MAPS

    The USGS address for maps of the planets is:

    U.S. Geological Survey,
    Distribution Branch,
    Box 25286, Federal Center, Bldg. 41
    Denver, CO 80225

    Maps cost $2.40 to $3.10 per sheet (a few come in sets of 2 or 3 sheets).

    The best global maps of Mars based on Viking images are 1:15,000,000
    scale in 3 sheets. These maps are:

    I-1535 (2 sheets only) - relief, albedo, names
    I-1535
    I-1618 (3 sheets) - relief, names
    I-2030 (3 sheets) - relief, topographic contours
    I-1802-A,B,C (3 sheets) - geology

    There are many other maps as well: 30 sheets at 1:5,000,000 scale in
    relief, albedo, geology, photomosaic forms (not all 30 sheets available
    in all formats); 140 sheets at 1:2,000,000 scale as photomosaics of the
    whole planet, about 100 sheets of interesting sites at 1:500,000 scale
    in photomosaic format, and lots of special sheets.

    Then there are maps of Mercury, Venus, the Moon, the four Galilean
    Satellites, six moons of Saturn and five of Uranus. [Phil Stooke
    (stooke@vaxr.sscl.uwo.ca), the author of this item, has offered to
    respond to email requests for information on any topic relating to lunar
    and planetary maps.]


COMETARY ORBIT DATA

    The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams and the Minor Planet
    Center announce the sixth edition of the Catalogue of Cometary Orbits in
    IAU Circular 4935. The catalogue contains 1292 entries which represent
    all known comets through November 1989 and is 96 pages long.
    Non-subscribers to the Circulars may purchase the catalogue for $15.00
    while the cost to subscribers is $7.50. The basic catalogue in ASCII
    along with a program to extract specific orbits and calculate
    ephemerides is available on MS-DOS 5.25-inch 2S2D diskette at a cost of
    $75.00 (the program requires an 8087 math coprocessor). The catalogue
    alone is also available by e-mail for $37.50 or on magnetic tape for
    $300.00.

    Except for the printed version of the catalogue, the various magnetic
    media or e-mail forms of the catalogue do not specifically meantion
    non-subscribers. It is possible that these forms of the catalogue may
    not be available to non-subscribers or that their prices may be more
    expensive than those given. Mail requests for specific information and
    orders to:

	Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams
	Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
	Cambridge, MA 02138, USA


NEXT: FAQ #4/15 - Performing calculations and interpreting data formats

========== END RAW ============================

Preprocessed:
============ START PREPROCESSED =================
space faq data sourc  expir gmt       archiv name
space data last modifi date  onlin sourc imag data
etc   introduct  wide varieti imag data catalog
inform releas materi deal space astronomi found
net site offer direct dialup access remot login
access remaind support form file transfer mani
site list provid anonym ftp refer file transfer
protocol internet site connect internet cannot use
ftp direct autom ftp server oper via   make
request  sourc broadest select materi nasa ame
space archiv nation space scienc data center
don't even ask imag post net data volum huge
nobodi want spend time   view imag  possibl combin
imag format machin forebod larg won't attempt
cover common format gif etc read pds vicar mani
format unix system run use avail anonym ftp export
lcs mit edu contrib tar standard x11 ftp site  faq
usenet group alt binari pictur discuss imag format
get imag view softwar copi document avail anonym
ftp usenet faq archiv pit manag mit edu directori
pub usenet alt binari pictur   onlin archiv  nasa
ame  extens archiv maintain nasa ame avail via
anonym ftp email server archiv includ mani imag
wide varieti document includ faq list nasa press
releas shuttl launch advisori mission status
report pleas note maintain offici basi  ftp user
connect ame arc nasa gov look pub space pub space
index contain list file avail archiv index 200k
access archiv email send letter  letter bodi use
command like  send space index send space shuttl
ss01  capit subdirectori name import cap text file
handl email server present use one ftp email
server describ introduct section imag program
magellan venus voyag jupit saturn uranus rom imag
disk put onlin cdrom cdrom2 directori disk rotat
week basi thousand imag avail collect  gif
directori contain imag gif format vicar directori
contain magellan imag vicar format also avail gif
directori program capabl display file found imdisp
directori see item view imag  nasa media guid
describ various nasa center contact public affair
offic use pursu specif inform it misc media guid
problem archiv server report peter yee    nasa
astrophys data system  ad distribut data retriev
system easi use provid uniform access ground base
space base astronomi data nasa data center across
countri current data catalog radio infrar optic
ray data queri posit paramet catalog ad also
provid tool manipul plot tabular result addit ad
beta version abstract servic allow user queri
abstract astronomi paper sinc author keyword titl
word abstract text word  ad use requir direct
internet access info sign  quickstart guid avail
anonym ftp sao ftp harvard edu directori pub ad ad
user guid postscript file     nasa jet propuls lab
mission inform imag  pubinfo jpl nasa gov anonym
ftp site oper jpl public inform offic contain news
releas status report fact sheet imag data jpl
mission also reach modem pariti data bit stop bit
nasa langley technic report  techreport larc nasa
gov anonym ftp site offer technic report get start
directori pub techreport larc retriev file readm
abstract file compress postscript report also wai
databas follow descript  sourc version name
techreport larc nasa gov tcp port databas name
nasa larc ab cost cost unit free  descript nasa
langley research center technic report     nasa
spacelink  spacelink onlin servic locat marshal
space flight center huntsvill alabama system
specif design teacher data base arrang provid easi
access current histor inform nasa aeronaut space
research technolog transfer inform also includ
suggest classroom activ incorpor inform nasa
project teach number scientif principl unlik
bulletin board system nasa spacelink provid
interact caller howev allow teacher caller leav
question comment nasa answer regular mail messag
answer electron even acknowledg request fulfil
mail messag general handl next work day except
mission turnaround time increas mail system close
loop user nasa  spacelink also offer download
sharewar public domain program use scienc educ
well space graphic gif imag nasa planetari probe
hubbl telescop  dial baud bit pariti stop bit
telnet spacelink msfc nasa gov also known xsl msfc
nasa gov you'r internet anonym ftp capabl password
guest avail  inform also avail ame server
directori spacelink   nation space scienc data
center nssdc  nation space scienc data center
offici clearinghous nasa data data catalog data
avail onlin internet user telnet nssdca gsfc nasa
gov log nodi password also get catalog send   also
dial baud bit pariti one stop enter number prompt
enter carriag return system respond call complet
enter carriag return get usernam log nodi password
system menu driven topic avail  master directori
nasa global chang personnel inform manag system
nimbus grid tom data interplanetari medium data
omni request data inform nssdc geophys model
canopus newslett intern ultraviolet explor data
request czcs brows order util astronom data center
adc step bulletin board servic standard technolog
inform system planetari scienc magellan project
inform onlin data servic nssdc rom avail nssdc
user internet access dataset made avail via anonym
ftp select desir dataset onlin catalog user data
order rom format among mani type data avail voyag
magellan planetari imag earth observ data star
catalog viewer macintosh ibm system also avail
exampl cost set voyag imag data order onlin email
physic mail postal address  nation space scienc
data center request coordin offic goddard space
flight center code greenbelt  telephon     space
telescop scienc institut electron inform servic
stsci edu larg amount inform hubbl space telescop
avail anonym ftp status report newslett addit
materi orient toward hst observ propos get top
level readm file begin     starcat  space telescop
european coordin facil eso garch provid line
access huge astronom databas featur  observ log
file sever satellit telescop iue ira hst ntt
spectra imag iue hst astronom catalogu sao ngc ppm
ira veron gsc mani other conveni way give center
radius kind object get correspond file  log
starcat' password node stesi eso org stesi decnet
file creat  ecf   astronom databas  full sao
stellar databas avail onlin probabl due size order
magnet tape nssdc subset contain posit magnitud
avail ftp see astronomi program  nic funet larg
collect astronom program mani type comput databas
star deep sky object general astronomi inform
directori pub astro site main european user
oversea connect possibl  ame archiv contain
databas galaxi includ name declin magnitud radial
veloc misc galaxi dat   iris1 uci dal number gif
voyag hubbl sourc avail anonym ftp pub gif data
also space gif ame server pleas restrict access
5pm 8am atlant time  pomona claremont edu yale
bright star catalog anonym ftp directori yale bsc
contact jame dishaw   hubbl guid star catalog
avail rom mac catalog st101  astronom societi
pacif ashton ave san francisco phone pacif time
fax  german possibl european reader jost jahn
servic distribut astronom data interest amateur
cost catalog avail disk sever floppi disk format
avail expens receiv email system ask contact
physic mail  jost jahn neustaedt strass bodenteich
germani phone frg   astronomi program  various
astronomi relat program databas post net past
archiv anonym ftp multipl site includ ftp net also
see astro ftp list post sci astro month complet
list  astonom space relat sourc interest comp
sourc unix  volum phoon moon phase date routin
volum starchart starchart program yale star data
volum moontool show moon phase pictur sun volum
sao reduc sao catalog  astonom space relat sourc
interest comp sourc misc  volum moon anoth moon
phase program volum starchart starchart program
version volum n3emo orbit orbit track earth
satellit volum starchart2 starchart program updat
version volum jupmoon plotter jupit major moon
perl volum lunisolar lunisolar sure volum ephem
astronom ephemeri volum n3emo orbit patch orbit
volum planet planet generat simul   ephem offer
mail copi peopl can't find one archiv  xsat window
system base satellit track program avail anonym
ftp export lcs mit edu  inform  xski computer sky
atlas window system avail anonym ftp arizona edu
directori softwar unix xski  inform  variabl star
analysi softwar archiv avail via anonym ftp kauri
vuw directori pub astrophi intend specialist field
appreci peopl outsid new zealand confin ftp access
astrophi directori pay signific amount internet
access content relat spars present due youth
archiv contribut encourag contact archiv  inform
idl astronomi user librari avail anonym ftp
idlastro gsfc nasa gov central repositori general
purpos astronomi procedur written idl commerci
imag process plot program languag contact wayn
landsman    orbit element set  recent orbit
element nasa predict bulletin carri celesti bbs
document track softwar also avail system celesti
bbs access hour day baud use data bit stop bit
pariti  orbit element set avail via anonym ftp
follow site  archiv afit mil nasa tvro shuttl
directori pub space  ftp funet nasa tvro molczan
celbb directori pub astro satel shuttl  kilroy jpl
nasa gov nasa molczan directori pub space   space
digest archiv  copi back issu space digest archiv
get index file send messag get filenam filetyp get
particular file   landsat nasa photo  get black
white print negat posit respect landsat data year
old edc ero earth resourc orbit satellit data
center call get meter resolut mss scanner 135x180
kilomet pictur 135x180 size think select one band
green red near second near i'm sure digiti data
also avail higher price  transpar nasa photo avail
public borrow nasa photo archiv copi print made
nasa audio visual facil north rengstorff ave
mountain view    planetari map  usg address map
planet  geolog survey distribut branch box feder
center bldg denver  map cost per sheet come set
sheet  best global map mar base vike imag scale
sheet map  sheet relief albedo name  sheet relief
name sheet relief topograph contour sheet geolog
mani map well sheet scale relief albedo geolog
photomosa form sheet avail format sheet scale
photomosa whole planet sheet interest site scale
photomosa format lot special sheet  map mercuri
venus moon four galilean satellit six moon saturn
five uranus phil stook  respond email request
inform topic relat lunar planetari map   cometari
orbit data  central bureau astronom telegram minor
planet center announc sixth edit catalogu cometari
orbit iau circular catalogu contain entri repres
known comet novemb page long non subscrib circular
purchas catalogu cost subscrib basic catalogu
ascii along program extract specif orbit calcul
ephemerid avail dos inch 2s2d diskett cost program
requir math coprocessor catalogu alon also avail
mail magnet tape   except print version catalogu
various magnet media mail form catalogu specif
meantion non subscrib possibl form catalogu avail
non subscrib price expens given mail request
specif inform order  central bureau astronom
telegram smithsonian astrophys observatori
cambridg usa   next faq perform calcul interpret
data format
========== END PREPROCESSED =====================


Feature vector (sorted, non-zero values only):
Term, Index, Value:
data, 2385, 0.303672339695
nasa, 5956, 0.293170823986
avail, 811, 0.242105239463
ftp, 3709, 0.240314555899
archiv, 618, 0.191683922852
anonym, 532, 0.183188350378
directori, 2669, 0.174954343503
sheet, 7870, 0.172583088074
space, 8164, 0.157004143664
imag, 4512, 0.151178683635
catalog, 1552, 0.149885845259
volum, 9577, 0.145130945525
inform, 4637, 0.134759036741
catalogu, 1553, 0.126961439613
center, 1606, 0.115846575925
pub, 6971, 0.109145519484
access, 209, 0.105074125917
onlin, 6245, 0.103328181945
astronom, 728, 0.102075015387
file, 3477, 0.0993127552418
program, 6905, 0.0954488065255
gov, 3965, 0.0930032583298
format, 3612, 0.0902490901251
astronomi, 729, 0.0888277761682
databas, 2386, 0.0874745575419
spacelink, 8172, 0.0859368956317
site, 7994, 0.0844879949078
starchart, 8327, 0.0828748690975
orbit, 6280, 0.0816183636938
sao, 7617, 0.0799261243341
nssdc, 6141, 0.0799261243341
user, 9366, 0.0796380674626
server, 7812, 0.0742846220324
map, 5498, 0.0735290835598
ame, 465, 0.0721098783975
gif, 3869, 0.0692263044849
internet, 4717, 0.0689077646128
sourc, 8153, 0.0680970806637
request, 7301, 0.068037800251
report, 7291, 0.0652712420307
mail, 5447, 0.0634266098513
contain, 2079, 0.0630893333642
email, 3060, 0.0603737074268
moon, 5851, 0.0582609510035
larc, 5123, 0.0572912637545
guid, 4082, 0.0565841067919
cost, 2169, 0.0545223254929
scienc, 7692, 0.053629147294
star, 8324, 0.0531870262554
pariti, 6429, 0.0531024886381
ad, 257, 0.0528114241035
planetari, 6665, 0.0523408497982
telescop, 8764, 0.0521685766298
edu, 3001, 0.0508794357893
password, 6455, 0.0507434928274
hubbl, 4420, 0.0507434928274
servic, 7813, 0.050615194071
log, 5328, 0.0503434130035
bit, 1122, 0.0483999490845
magellan, 5433, 0.048282632231
faq, 3385, 0.0478992933532
voyag, 9588, 0.047418674971
rom, 7467, 0.0471497981028
planet, 6664, 0.0469326077343
relief, 7257, 0.0466371305634
techreport, 8744, 0.0465833401213
contact, 2078, 0.0464325079545
abstract, 199, 0.0463923359733
index, 4596, 0.0456989645636
provid, 6949, 0.0454997073683
subscrib, 8496, 0.0440938571146
satellit, 7632, 0.0438565319888
vicar, 9499, 0.0429684478159
baud, 953, 0.0429684478159
jpl, 4912, 0.0424483554471
disk, 2720, 0.0420128543595
yale, 9929, 0.0417343215652
astro, 724, 0.0414659844356
use, 9363, 0.0407476446761
mani, 5479, 0.040704777987
specif, 8203, 0.0406825031625
version, 9479, 0.0398792192654
bulletin, 1387, 0.0394299540997
send, 7785, 0.0393766670362
relat, 7247, 0.0391823481883
scale, 7659, 0.0382298161972
list, 5298, 0.0375406165184
magnet, 5437, 0.0371980826486
order, 6281, 0.0362336034248
copi, 2130, 0.0360510476367
geolog, 3842, 0.0359883128945
offer, 6203, 0.0359829973723
includ, 4579, 0.0352698055401
mit, 5781, 0.0349778479226
stop, 8413, 0.034670696407
pictur, 6622, 0.0346131522425
phase, 6583, 0.0339504640752
status, 8352, 0.0334946995022
european, 3222, 0.0334946995022
molczan, 5822, 0.033149947639
ephem, 3145, 0.033149947639
astonom, 718, 0.033149947639
transfer, 9052, 0.033070392836
photo, 6603, 0.033070392836
shuttl, 7929, 0.033004222836
net, 6010, 0.033004222836
usenet, 9365, 0.0329352223982
form, 3610, 0.032864048315
misc, 5757, 0.032673480457
mission, 5772, 0.0324133849258
central, 1611, 0.0323006385877
nation, 5962, 0.0322828780365
base, 923, 0.0320775811043
view, 9510, 0.0320279349181
stesi, 8389, 0.0319704497336
nodi, 6090, 0.0319704497336
iue, 4804, 0.0319704497336
hst, 4416, 0.031616600115
public, 6973, 0.0315013336289
carriag, 1531, 0.0310555600808
element, 3037, 0.0308088827379
track, 9030, 0.030441609006
starcat, 8326, 0.0303080408054
eso, 3187, 0.0303080408054
astrophi, 730, 0.0303080408054
albedo, 381, 0.0303080408054
media, 5605, 0.0299288114987
enter, 3125, 0.0298473532569
dataset, 2390, 0.0296760222635
cometari, 1927, 0.0296760222635
print, 6871, 0.0294555005306
connect, 2046, 0.029380039371
set, 7815, 0.0293710976203
distribut, 2753, 0.0288075325856
select, 7774, 0.0287395760119
document, 2788, 0.028283811439
caller, 1464, 0.0282136532473
unix, 9284, 0.0281595646406
msfc, 5904, 0.0278228810435
funet, 3728, 0.0278228810435
langley, 5112, 0.0274661339719
landsat, 5108, 0.0274661339719
ira, 4759, 0.0274661339719
softwar, 8103, 0.0273676716039
technic, 8737, 0.0273000276687
offic, 6206, 0.0272467805192
various, 9432, 0.0271416496286
materi, 5543, 0.0270897505244
releas, 7253, 0.0268864259787
possibl, 6765, 0.0268845018284
queri, 7030, 0.0268341154299
uranus, 9348, 0.0265512443191
telnet, 8768, 0.0265512443191
dial, 2609, 0.0265512443191
celesti, 1597, 0.0265512443191
idl, 4488, 0.0262866360665
newslett, 6033, 0.0260380748202
lcs, 5169, 0.0260380748202
ave, 814, 0.0260380748202
observ, 6179, 0.0255844930065
bureau, 1408, 0.0255820491718
messag, 5650, 0.0254247435744
gsfc, 4072, 0.0253717464137
readm, 7141, 0.0249809742099
circular, 1768, 0.0247987217657
astrophys, 731, 0.0247987217657
pacif, 6372, 0.0244568567609
non, 6097, 0.0243761684428
teacher, 8730, 0.024296051645
magnitud, 5441, 0.024296051645
posit, 6761, 0.0241477599563
introduct, 4733, 0.0239922085963
general, 3818, 0.0237448446415
retriev, 7343, 0.0237093374855
direct, 2667, 0.0235674282805
saturn, 7640, 0.0234447292329
postscript, 6772, 0.0233185652817
export, 3310, 0.0231961679866
larg, 5124, 0.0227754254771
global, 3904, 0.0227401423382
venus, 9463, 0.0226336427168
coordin, 2126, 0.0225298395801
varieti, 9431, 0.0222333245136
binari, 1096, 0.0222333245136
galaxi, 3753, 0.0219568149322
plot, 6694, 0.0216149499273
jupit, 4932, 0.0214541448114
earth, 2956, 0.0214236252652
bbs, 961, 0.02107773341
tape, 8700, 0.0210064271797
alt, 446, 0.0209363399193
digest, 2640, 0.02066739074
comp, 1955, 0.020294406004
letter, 5227, 0.02023541211
electron, 3034, 0.02023541211
huge, 4427, 0.0201199113765
number, 6156, 0.0199980436366
wide, 9747, 0.0199525409991
facil, 3348, 0.0197917358832
collect, 1898, 0.0197917358832
calcul, 1451, 0.0197395058151
board, 1186, 0.0196879327465
respond, 7322, 0.0196370003537
maintain, 5454, 0.0196370003537
topic, 8992, 0.019586692914
basi, 936, 0.0195369952765
time, 8936, 0.0194833936071
expens, 3294, 0.0193440182516
descript, 2557, 0.0192971605427
price, 6857, 0.0190705832896
offici, 6207, 0.0190705832896
size, 8000, 0.0190267325519
handl, 4149, 0.0189404134711
addit, 263, 0.0186122379778
capabl, 1498, 0.0183822708899
text, 8822, 0.01834516652
easi, 2959, 0.0180944330857
date, 2391, 0.0180255238183
phone, 6601, 0.0179914986862
post, 6766, 0.0179614497928
physic, 6613, 0.0178254839064
flight, 3544, 0.0178254839064
sky, 8011, 0.0177290087518
describ, 2556, 0.0176659305093
return, 7346, 0.0175123543195
oper, 6261, 0.0171656686146
window, 9774, 0.017056328671
standard, 8313, 0.0167950935201
near, 5982, 0.0165974646667
present, 6837, 0.0164089254773
known, 5054, 0.0163859562021
technolog, 8743, 0.0162953446712
type, 9177, 0.0160139674591
ss01, 8288, 0.0159852248668
kilroy, 5017, 0.0159852248668
imdisp, 4522, 0.0159852248668
dialup, 2612, 0.0159852248668
address, 264, 0.0159311362602
complet, 1975, 0.0158499453913
research, 7307, 0.0157703311442
allow, 432, 0.0157116188536
manag, 5472, 0.0156537354702
yee, 9944, 0.0155277800404
turnaround, 9159, 0.0155277800404
topograph, 8993, 0.0155277800404
tcp, 8725, 0.0155277800404
mss, 5905, 0.0155277800404
garch, 3773, 0.0155277800404
galilean, 3754, 0.0155277800404
diskett, 2721, 0.0155277800404
200k, 59, 0.0155277800404
requir, 7302, 0.0152525262521
project, 6909, 0.0152179268494
youth, 9967, 0.0151540204027
wai, 9609, 0.0151540204027
perl, 6549, 0.0151540204027
decnet, 2449, 0.0151540204027
bldg, 1148, 0.0151540204027
sever, 7823, 0.0151326845919
answer, 535, 0.0151326845919
object, 6173, 0.0150990778063
current, 2299, 0.0148554414914
repositori, 7292, 0.0148380111318
pubinfo, 6972, 0.0148380111318
pds, 6493, 0.0148380111318
oversea, 6352, 0.0148380111318
omni, 6235, 0.0148380111318
ntt, 6148, 0.0148380111318
nssdca, 6142, 0.0148380111318
harvard, 4191, 0.0148380111318
ephemeri, 3146, 0.0148380111318
computer, 1995, 0.0148380111318
word, 9829, 0.0146855488101
uci, 9188, 0.01456427145
smithsonian, 8065, 0.01456427145
remaind, 7265, 0.01456427145
radial, 7056, 0.01456427145
postal, 6767, 0.0143228159386
plotter, 6695, 0.0143228159386
iau, 4471, 0.0143228159386
greenbelt, 4026, 0.0143228159386
geophys, 3846, 0.0143228159386
dat, 2384, 0.0143228159386
afit, 316, 0.0143228159386
ask, 689, 0.014200957113
subset, 8499, 0.0141068266236
stsci, 8463, 0.0141068266236
protocol, 6943, 0.0141068266236
pomona, 6737, 0.0141068266236
usernam, 9368, 0.0139114405217
stellar, 8372, 0.0139114405217
spectra, 8208, 0.0139114405217
specialist, 8200, 0.0139114405217
filenam, 3478, 0.0139114405217
dal, 2340, 0.0139114405217
borrow, 1234, 0.0139114405217
advisori, 295, 0.0139114405217
usg, 9369, 0.0137330669859
ultraviolet, 9201, 0.0137330669859
personnel, 6563, 0.0137330669859
nic, 6046, 0.0137330669859
marshal, 5521, 0.0137330669859
confin, 2031, 0.0137330669859
brows, 1345, 0.0137330669859
audio, 778, 0.0135689792393
follow, 3578, 0.0134759036741
huntsvill, 4446, 0.013417057715
grid, 4043, 0.013417057715
cdrom, 1587, 0.013417057715
atlant, 748, 0.013417057715
transpar, 9063, 0.0132756221595
subdirectori, 8484, 0.0132756221595
pursu, 6995, 0.0132756221595
login, 5331, 0.0132756221595
kilomet, 5016, 0.0132756221595
affair, 309, 0.0132756221595
aeronaut, 301, 0.0132756221595
sure, 8585, 0.0132035588974
sixth, 7997, 0.0131433180332
modem, 5809, 0.0131433180332
keyword, 4997, 0.0131433180332
contour, 2094, 0.0131433180332
alabama, 374, 0.0131433180332
ab, 163, 0.0131433180332
node, 6089, 0.0130190374101
infrar, 4640, 0.0130190374101
contrib, 2102, 0.0130190374101
novemb, 6129, 0.0129018625218
guest, 4080, 0.0129018625218
goddard, 3927, 0.0129018625218
atlas, 751, 0.0129018625218
wayn, 9667, 0.0127910245859
declin, 2448, 0.0127910245859
interplanetari, 4718, 0.0126858732068
floppi, 3551, 0.0126858732068
autom, 802, 0.0125858532509
prompt, 6915, 0.0124904871049
pit, 6642, 0.0124904871049
incorpor, 4587, 0.0124904871049
cap, 1497, 0.0124904871049
cambridg, 1470, 0.0124904871049
vike, 9517, 0.0123993608829
ppm, 6787, 0.0123993608829
loop, 5344, 0.0123993608829
extract, 3326, 0.0123993608829
beta, 1055, 0.0123993608829
variabl, 9427, 0.0123121135691
patch, 6459, 0.0123121135691
inch, 4574, 0.0123121135691
german, 3854, 0.0123121135691
driven, 2875, 0.0122284283804
correspond, 2158, 0.0122284283804
arizona, 639, 0.0122284283804
day, 2402, 0.012157972467
menu, 5633, 0.0121480258225
tar, 8701, 0.0120706580577
scanner, 7663, 0.0120706580577
mercuri, 5640, 0.0120706580577
download, 2843, 0.0120706580577
pleas, 6688, 0.0120611174538
x11, 9883, 0.0119961042982
veloc, 9456, 0.0119961042982
capit, 1502, 0.0119961042982
ascii, 676, 0.0119961042982
fulfil, 3717, 0.0119241670067
denver, 2533, 0.0119241670067
meter, 5663, 0.0118546687427
germani, 3855, 0.0118546687427
mil, 5712, 0.0117874495257
medium, 5614, 0.0117874495257
uniform, 9273, 0.0117223646164
survey, 8597, 0.0117223646164
arrang, 652, 0.0117223646164
procedur, 6888, 0.0116592826409
conveni, 2112, 0.0116592826409
optic, 6273, 0.0115980839933
negat, 5996, 0.0115980839933
master, 5537, 0.0115980839933
francisco, 3652, 0.0115980839933
acknowledg, 239, 0.0115980839933
zealand, 9977, 0.0115386594718
remot, 7271, 0.0115386594718
org, 6286, 0.0115386594718
macintosh, 5418, 0.0115386594718
arc, 608, 0.0115386594718
telephon, 8763, 0.0114247411409
mountain, 5887, 0.0114247411409
restrict, 7330, 0.0113700711691
radius, 7064, 0.0113700711691
green, 4025, 0.0113168213584
band, 891, 0.0113168213584
paramet, 6421, 0.01126491979
amateur, 458, 0.01126491979
sharewar, 7856, 0.0111648998341
peopl, 6530, 0.0111239537576
encourag, 3089, 0.0111166622568
purchas, 6988, 0.0110695336882
port, 6748, 0.0110234642787
feder, 3425, 0.0110234642787
reader, 7137, 0.0109784074661
probe, 6886, 0.0109784074661
item, 4798, 0.0109784074661
entri, 3135, 0.0109343196927
math, 5544, 0.0108911601523
branch, 1269, 0.0108488905631
simul, 7974, 0.0108074749637
observatori, 6180, 0.0108074749637
bright, 1311, 0.0108074749637
principl, 6870, 0.0107668795292
domain, 2805, 0.0107668795292
histor, 4313, 0.0107270724057
deep, 2466, 0.0107270724057
comet, 1926, 0.0106880235594
reduc, 7204, 0.0106497046409
multipl, 5919, 0.0106120888618
compress, 1986, 0.0106120888618
expir, 3300, 0.0105751508814
manipul, 5483, 0.010538866705
interact, 4704, 0.010538866705
visual, 9547, 0.0104681699596
content, 2084, 0.0104681699596
extens, 3320, 0.0103998302165
nobodi, 6088, 0.0103664961089
educ, 3002, 0.0103014111996
gmt, 3917, 0.0102696275793
north, 6110, 0.0102075015387
unlik, 9290, 0.0101771305765
orient, 6290, 0.0101771305765
viewer, 9512, 0.010147203002
jet, 4860, 0.010147203002
jame, 4820, 0.010147203002
peter, 6575, 0.010117706055
tool, 8988, 0.0100886275185
thousand, 8888, 0.0100886275185
section, 7759, 0.0100886275185
phil, 6588, 0.0100886275185
mar, 5500, 0.0100886275185
routin, 7499, 0.0100599556883
intend, 4700, 0.0100599556883
desir, 2565, 0.0100599556883
resolut, 7316, 0.00997627049956
propuls, 6936, 0.00994911775231
combin, 1921, 0.00994911775231
ibm, 4472, 0.0099223199531
countri, 2186, 0.0099223199531
languag, 5113, 0.0098958679416
alon, 437, 0.0098958679416
titl, 8953, 0.00986975290757
usa, 9357, 0.00984396637326
press, 6841, 0.00984396637326
lunar, 5392, 0.00984396637326
modifi, 5814, 0.00981850017685
repres, 7294, 0.00979334645701
page, 6382, 0.00976849763825
edit, 2996, 0.00976849763825
resourc, 7320, 0.00974394641729
outsid, 6332, 0.00974394641729
societi, 8093, 0.00971968575014
analysi, 490, 0.00971968575014
scientif, 7693, 0.00969570884
explor, 3307, 0.00969570884
lab, 5085, 0.00967200912578
interpret, 4720, 0.00967200912578
dos, 2825, 0.00967200912578
util, 9384, 0.00962541615544
spend, 8222, 0.00960251086186
featur, 3422, 0.00960251086186
sci, 7690, 0.00955745404929
teach, 8729, 0.00951336627594
rotat, 7490, 0.00951336627594
regular, 7234, 0.00951336627594
step, 8377, 0.00947020673556
minor, 5745, 0.00942793714632
institut, 4683, 0.00942793714632
cover, 2194, 0.00942793714632
higher, 4293, 0.00940712475997
announc, 524, 0.00940712475997
contribut, 2103, 0.00934592611244
sign, 7946, 0.00932592592992
machin, 5416, 0.00932592592992
unit, 9278, 0.0093061189889
respect, 7321, 0.00928650159089
predict, 6816, 0.00928650159089
pay, 6474, 0.00928650159089
san, 7603, 0.00926707014259
tom, 8976, 0.00924782115189
increas, 4590, 0.00924782115189
hour, 4395, 0.00922875122416
ground, 4061, 0.00920985705863
radio, 7061, 0.00915419746459
special, 8198, 0.00913597510063
paper, 6409, 0.00913597510063
mac, 5410, 0.00913597510063
leav, 5184, 0.00913597510063
intern, 4716, 0.00911791328821
librari, 5250, 0.0091000092229
begin, 994, 0.0091000092229
locat, 5323, 0.00908226017308
attempt, 763, 0.00901276190916
main, 5450, 0.00899574934308
command, 1933, 0.00899574934308
receiv, 7167, 0.00896214199291
black, 1133, 0.00896214199291
written, 9867, 0.00894554269212
common, 1948, 0.00894554269212
reach, 7128, 0.00891274195319
updat, 9333, 0.00888045778286
generat, 3819, 0.00888045778286
bodi, 1194, 0.00888045778286
signific, 7951, 0.00883296525463
display, 2734, 0.00883296525463
purpos, 6993, 0.00881737580727
white, 9737, 0.00878654812187
activ, 252, 0.00875617715974
won, 9820, 0.00874115875962
past, 6456, 0.00866767410174
commerci, 1940, 0.00866767410174
carri, 1530, 0.00866767410174
propos, 6933, 0.00861072592733
fax, 3413, 0.00861072592733
model, 5807, 0.00859673268223
particular, 6442, 0.00858283430731
ray, 7118, 0.00856902952486
sun, 8539, 0.00847491452481
month, 5847, 0.00844879949078
basic, 937, 0.00843586567849
level, 5229, 0.00841024031423
author, 796, 0.00841024031423
box, 1254, 0.00837239304022
issu, 4793, 0.00835993098088
free, 3668, 0.00834754422146
perform, 6539, 0.0083229930005
process, 6890, 0.00828670882412
deal, 2418, 0.00828670882412
comment, 1936, 0.00822762685457
red, 7194, 0.00820446273865
recent, 7168, 0.00814767233561
code, 1871, 0.00814767233561
info, 4636, 0.00807071950912
launch, 5147, 0.00805995831671
design, 2564, 0.00796556813008
result, 7332, 0.00795534365777
creat, 2217, 0.00792497269565
appreci, 587, 0.00792497269565
discuss, 2708, 0.00788516557211
suggest, 8525, 0.00781731059682
import, 4551, 0.00777018202818
close, 1830, 0.00777018202818
old, 6216, 0.00775162984322
field, 3466, 0.00771502168384
refer, 7213, 0.00755792338291
week, 9691, 0.00754953890314
major, 5458, 0.00752458927533
exampl, 3258, 0.00743562057225
note, 6118, 0.00739642239048
chang, 1650, 0.00736559470507
given, 3887, 0.00735795967782
kind, 5021, 0.00731273720179
second, 7753, 0.00713436366598
group, 4064, 0.00713436366598
comput, 1993, 0.00710721091872
news, 6031, 0.00708041311951
howev, 4406, 0.00706714444893
support, 8576, 0.00706054218092
fact, 3350, 0.00703434371001
best, 1052, 0.00685380200642
line, 5285, 0.00679505866197
graphic, 3997, 0.00674924664495
probabl, 6885, 0.00670443606413
anoth, 533, 0.00660705616319
start, 8334, 0.00648900087874
long, 5336, 0.00645929017829
problem, 6887, 0.00644948153543
lot, 5356, 0.00639635718003
sinc, 7977, 0.00624920865542
read, 7135, 0.0062403533395
question, 7032, 0.00620530970927
run, 7543, 0.00617513036899
new, 6023, 0.00597159006535
come, 1923, 0.00594464128828
work, 9833, 0.00580780043582
want, 9634, 0.00558431175677
way, 9666, 0.00536255590506
year, 9943, 0.00515204441437
make, 5459, 0.00514167775538
look, 5341, 0.00511598816546
think, 8871, 0.00469511929959
don, 2811, 0.00464988170282
like, 5272, 0.00431651413637
